Product SiteDocumentation Site

ARPSC



Michigan 2011 Summary
=====================


An overview of the 2011 program year
------------------------------------


[IMAGE]


John McDonough

American Radio Relay League Michigan Sectionwb8rcr@arrl.net



Legal Notice
============

CopyrightÂ© 2012, The Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by the
Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League under a Creative
Commons Attribution--Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An
explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/. The original authors of
this document designate the Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay
League as the "Attribution Party" for purposes of CC-BY-SA. In accordance
with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it,
you must provide the URL for the original version. The Michigan Section,
as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees
not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. The ARRL Diamond and logo, the ARES logo and the ARPSC
logo are registered trademarks of the American Radio Relay League in the
United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property
of their respective owners.

Abstract

Working with state and local governments, as well as a wide variety of
non-governmental agencies, Michigan amateurs participate in a wide range
of public service and emergency preparedness activities. This report
outlines the efforts of the 2011 calendar year.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Overview

2. Amateur Radio Emergency Service

      2.1. Organization

3. National Traffic System

      3.1. Organization

4. Individual Amateur Reporting

      4.1. Public Service Honor Roll

      4.2. Station Activity Reports

      4.3. Brass Pounder's League

5. Exercises

      5.1. State-sponsored exercises

      5.2. Section Exercises

      5.3. 2012 Exercise Plans

6. Internet-based Media

      6.1. Electronic Mail

      6.2. Web

      6.3. Online Social Groups

      6.4. Microblogging

      6.5. Online Meetings

      6.6. Wiki

7. Year over year comparisons

      7.1. ARES

      7.2. NTS

A. Revision History


1. Overview
-----------

The Michigan Amateur Radio Public Service Corps (ARPSC) is an
organization of over 2,000 amateur radio operators who participate in
public service and emergency response activities. These include such
things as providing communications for various walks and runs, as well as
reporting storm damage, participating in search and rescue efforts, and
providing backup communications for public safety officers. There are two
primary programs, the Amateur Radio Emergency Services (ARES) and the
National Traffic System (NTS). ARES provides "feet on the ground" for
various events and incidents, while NTS provides a communications
infrastructure that moves formal messages across the state and across the
nation. There are two other programs, associated with ARES, which do not
report independently. These are RACES and SKYWARN. RACES consists of
those ARES members who have been approved by their local government to
operate in critical areas such as incident scenes or Emergency Operations
Centers. This approval generally requires a degree of training and a
background check. The Michigan Section and the Michigan State Police have
published suggested RACES qualifications, but the responsibility for
vetting RACES members rests with the local Emergency Management
Coordinator. Most counties follow the guidelines closely. SKYWARN members
provide ground weather observations to their local jurisdictions and to
the National Weather Service. SKYWARN members do not have to be ARES
members, but almost always are, and most counties run SKYWARN programs as
part of their ARES programs. SKYWARN observers are trained by the
National Weather Service. Together, Michigan amateurs reported over
138,000 volunteer hours during 2011 representing a contribution of almost
$3 million [1]. This is up substantially over 2010 (88,368 hours).


2. Amateur Radio Emergency Service
----------------------------------

ARES represents the largest program. ARES has a program in each Michigan
county, managed by an Emergency Coordinator who works closely with the
Emergency Management Director of the county to provide backup
communications to the local jurisdiction. Because Michigan counties are
so varied, the ARES organizations within those counties are quite varied.
Although their primary customer is typically the county Emergency
Management organization, they may also work with the local Red Cross,
Salvation Army, and other NGOs. In some counties, the liaison with the
fire departments or Sheriff's office is especially close. Each county has
different needs, and the ARES organization attempts to meet those needs.
In Michigan, and especially southern Michigan, severe weather is common,
and in many cases, the greatest effort is expended with weather related
activities. Amateurs spot bad weather and report to their National
Weather Service office when bad weather is approaching, and following
severe weather, are often involved in recovery operations. Late spring
and early summer tend to be the time when damaging weather is
encountered, and this is also the time that many organizations hold runs,
walks and other events for which amateurs frequently provide
communications. Hence, the peak in the middle of the year in the graph
below: Michigan ARES Hours FSD-212 Results

Figure 1. Michigan ARES Hours


Michigan ARES programs reported 105,106 hours in 2011, over 24,000 of
them occuring in May and June. Individual county reports are available at
http://ares-mi.org/arpsc_ecrept.php. Links on the page allow viewing of
individual county detail as well as previous reporting periods.


2.1. Organization

The Michigan State Police divides the state into 7 Districts, and
appoints a District Coordinator for each. ARES has a District Emergency
Coordinator for each of those districts, who works with the District
coordinator. In addition, the Section appoints a District Emergency
Coordinator for each of the National Weather Service offices in the
state. This NWS DEC works with the office's Warning Coordination
Meteorologist to provide training to SKYWARN members and implement
circuits that permit field observations to be transmitted to the NWS
office effectively. These DECs are as follows:

District

DEC Call

DEC Name

1

K8YZA

Joe Pullen

2

WF5X

Randy Love

3

N8OSL

Joe Tuscher

5

KB8FQJ

Carl Flickinger

6

KB8VEE

Tom van der Mel

7

WA8RLI

Red Duggan

8

KG8NK

Lou Gembolis

APX

WD8DX

Jeff Morey

DTX

N8ZSA

Ted Davis

GRR

N8VLN

Michael Gage

MQT

KI8AF

Greg Hanson

Table 1. District Emergency Coordinators


Each DEC coordinates a staff of Emergency Coordinators, one per county,
who work with local emergency management to provide needed capabilities
to the county. In addition, the Section Emergency Coordinator maintains a
small staff to help organize the section. These assistant SECs are:

Role

ASEC Call

ASEC Name

SEOC Alternate

N8ERF

Dr. Dennis Klipa

SEOC Station Manager

K8RDN

Robert Berger

Training and Exercises

NX8A

John (Jack) Hutcheson

Table 2. Assistant Section Emergency Coordinators


3. National Traffic System
--------------------------

Michigan's National Traffic System consists of amateurs who send messages
(called "traffic") around the Section and around the nation. These
amateurs are organized into a group of on the air nets that meet
frequently with the intent of passing messages. These are the "unsung
heros" of ARPSC; many practice their skills every day, but they operate
behind the scenes, out of the eye of the served agencies and the public.
The individual nets report monthly. Michigan nets send approximately 1000
messages a month. In 2011, they reported 17,053 messages passed. Not all
traffic is reported, although the large number of non-reporting nets
probably pass a small fraction of the messages. The chart below shows the
performance across the year: Affiliated Net Reporting NTS Results

Figure 2. Affiliated Net Reporting


Detailed reports for the most recent month are available at
http://nts-mi.org/netreport.php. Links on the page allow for viewing of
previous reports or individual net history. Michigan amateurs also
participate in other nets. The Eighth Region net takes messages destined
for out of state addresses, and collects traffic bound for Michigan to
pass to Michigan representatives who will then carry those messages to
the Michigan nets. The Eastern Area Net interfaces with the Region nets
to move traffic among the Regions in the Eastern Area. The
Transcontinental Corps arranges to move traffic between the Areas.
Michigan amateurs participate in all of these, however that effort is not
reflected in Michigan reporting.


3.1. Organization

The bulk of the traffic is passed through nine affiliated nets. Each net
has an appointed net manager, responsible for arranging net controls and
liaisons to other nets, and for reporting monthly to the Section Traffic
Manager. The affiliated nets and their net managers are:

Net

Call

Net Manager

Great Lakes Emergency and Traffic Net

K8VFZ

Grant Watson

Michigan Amateur Communications System

WB9JSR

John Wehmer

Michigan ARPSC Net

WB8RCR

John McDonough

Michigan Digital Traffic Net

N8FVM

Ed Bassett

Michigan Traffic Net

WB8WKQ

Jeff Miller

Michigan VHF Traffic Net

AC8AR

Flora Jean Young

QMN, The Michigan Net

K8AE

Anne Travis

Southeast Michigan Traffic Net

WB8WKQ

Jeff Miller

Thumb and Mid-Michigan Traffic Net

K8VFZ

Grant Watson

Upper Peninsula Net

WA8DHB

Aileen Gagnon

Table 3. Net Managers


To be eligible for affiliation, a net must report regularly and maintain
liaison with other National Traffic System nets. In addition, there are
perhaps 40 other nets operating within the state, approximately ten of
which report regularly. The STM has a small number of assistants who
engage in projects such as liaison with other entities, training, and
administrative duties:

Call

ASTM

KB8RCR

Ryan Lughermo

WD8USA

Joe Bell

Table 4. Assistant Section Traffic Managers


4. Individual Amateur Reporting
-------------------------------

In addition to reporting by Emergency Coordinators and Net Managers,
individual amateurs are also encouraged to make reports. There are three
reports from individuals; Public Service Honor Roll, Station Activity
Report, and Brass Pounder's League.


4.1. Public Service Honor Roll

The Public Service Honor Roll reporting combines activity in a number of
categories. Stations get "points" for net checkins, traffic, Section
level appointments, public service oriented web or other digital systems,
and hours spent in public or emergency service. If a station reports 70
points within a month, that station is listed in QST, the amateur radio
journal. If a station is listed for 12 consecutive months, or for 18
months out of 24, the League will issue a certificate. PSHR reporting for
2011 has been relatively flat across the year. The summer months tend to
be higher due to bad weather and various public service events.
Public Service Honor Roll Reporting PSHR Results

Figure 3. Public Service Honor Roll Reporting


4.2. Station Activity Reports

Stations handling traffic are encouraged to submit Station Activity
Reports (SAR) indicating the amount of traffic handled. 42 stations
reported during 2011, up from 31 in 2010. Since most of the traffic is
handled by relatively few stations, and those stations tend to be the
stations that report, the traffic totals reported are quite high.
Stations handling a lot of traffic tend to be those stations that act as
liaisons to Region or Area nets, so even though the number of stations
reporting is quite small, the amount of traffic reported is considerably
larger than the totals from net reports, which include only messages
passed on Michigan nets. For 2011, Michigan stations individually
reported 42,157 messages. Station Activity Reports SAR Results

Figure 4. Station Activity Reports


4.3. Brass Pounder's League

Stations reporting 500 messages passed in a single month, or a total of
100 originations plus deliveries are eligible for Brass Pounder's league.
This requires substantial dedication, and only a few stations achieve
this award. The stations qualifying in 2011 were:

Call

Name

Total

WB9JSR

John Wehmer

9473

WB8WKQ

Jeff Miller

6665

K8LJG

John Kroll

1666

K8RDN

Bob Berger

583

Table 5. Brass Pounder's League


5. Exercises
------------

Local programs participate in numerous local and District-wide exercises
on a regular basis. There are also a number of statewide exercises in
which the Section participates.


5.1. State-sponsored exercises

The State of Michigan performs a number of drills and exercises each
year, most commonly concerned with nuclear power plants. During these
drills and exercises, the State EOC station is activated, the SEC or his
delegate participates in the EOC, and programs in the affected counties
are activated.

Date

Exercise

Counties

January 21

D. C. Cook Drill #1

Berrien

February 15

D. C. Cook Drill #2

Berrien

March 1

D. C. Cook Full-scale Exercise

Berrien

May 17

New Madrid Aftermath TTX/FE

All

Table 6. Michigan State Drills and Exercises


5.2. Section Exercises

The Section also organizes statewide exercises each year. Section
exercises, unlike State-sponsored exercises, tend to be functional,
exercising primarily communications skills, and are developed to attempt
to engage all the counties within the state. The Section has continued to
work on the ARES/NTS interface and held two drills in 2011 to develop
that skill. A Section-wide exercise was held in conjunction with the
State's New Madrid Aftermath exercise, and the annual SET was also used
to develop that skill. In addition, also in conjunction with NMA, A drill
was held with the State of Indiana to exercise sending a specific form
between state EOCs. Only a relatively few stations participated in that
drill, which also involved Michigan Army MARS and Indiana Navy MARS. One
objective for 2011 was to make better use of FEMA's HSEEP for exercises.
The Indiana drill moved us quite far in that direction, and the October
SET followed the FEMA procedures quite closely.


5.3. 2012 Exercise Plans

Emergency Coordinators have consistently asked for more statewide drills,
with the most common request being for four per year. However, the FEMA
HSEEP process proved to be quite burdensome, but also valuable. It seems
unrealistic to expect the staff to prepare more than two exercises per
year. For the 2012 cycle, our goals are as follows:

Timeframe

  *  2012

Present Problems

  *  Interface with State Agencies is weak or nonexistent

  *  Little knowledge of contacting other state EOCs

  *  Documentation of plans and procedures is badly lacking

Long Range Goal

  *  Serve effectively as a partner to State Agencies as well as local
    agencies.

Functional Objectives

  *  Develop relationships with some State Agencies

  *  Develop multiple circuits to nearby state EOCs

  *  Continue to develop HSEEP skills

Table 7. 2011 Objectives


The plan for 2012 is as follows:

Ex12-1 2Q2012

  * Exercise: Functional Drill

  * For: Section

  * Purpose: Develop digital skills

  * Rationale: It has been some time since we exercised HF Digital

Ex12-2 4Q2012

  * Exercise: Functional Drill

  * For: Section

  * Purpose: Exercise IP from 2011 SET

  * Rationale: The 2011 SET led to a well considered improvement plan. A
    year later it would be good to get a checkpoint on progress on that
    improvement plan.

Table 8. Planned 2011 Exercises


6. Internet-based Media
-----------------------

The section utilizes a number of electronic media to communicate with
members and potential members.


6.1. Electronic Mail

The Section Emergency Coordinator maintains an email list of all
Emergency Coordinators and District Emergency coordinators and uses this
as a primary means of direct communications with the ECs. The Section
Traffic Manager maintains a similar list of Net Managers.


6.2. Web

ARPSC maintains two web sites, one for ARES and one for NTS. There is
also a Section web site for more general information, and a web site
maintained by the Digiral Radio Group.

Site

URL

Content

Michigan Section

http://arrl-mi.org

Section news of general interest to amateurs in the Michigan Section

Amateur Radio Emergency Services

http://ares-mi.org

Reference information of interest to ARES members, as well as performance
data

National Traffic System

http://www.nts-mi.org

Reference information of interest to NTS members, as well as performance
data

Digital Radio Group

http://www.mi-drg.org

Reference information concerning various digital modes, especially
packet.

Table 9. Web Sites


The screenshot below shows an example page from the ares-mi.org site.
mi-arpsc Website ARPSC website

Figure 5. mi-arpsc Website


In addition to the Section sites, many Districts and Nets also maintain
web sites. In early 2011, the web provider lost the mi-nts.org domain
name which had been registered through the provider. mi-arpsc.org was a
subdomain of mi-nts.org. The result was that both websites were down for
some time. The SEC purchased the ares-mi.org and nts-mi.org domain names
and moved these to a new server. mi-arpsc.org was redirected to
ares-mi.org. The new web provider offers some features lacking in the
earlier site, however, it is lacking a feature which had been used to
provide RSS feeds for the web sites. The RSS feed has not yet been
restored.


6.3. Online Social Groups

The Section also maintains two Yahoo groups, the MIARPSC group is
available to all Michigan amateurs, and is often useful for a number of
discussions. The MIARPSC-DEC group is private to DECs and ADECs, and is
used for discussions within a smaller group. As with websites, many
Districts and nets have found it helpful to maintain their own groups,
most of these also on Yahoo.


6.4. Microblogging

The section maintains two microblogging accounts; miarpsc on identi.ca
and mi_arpsc on twitter.com. "Tweets" or "dents" are sent to these sites
periodically to remind followers of various upcoming events. Both sites
get exactly the same feed. There is also a page on the mi-arpsc web site,
http://www.ares-mi.org/arpsc_tweets.php where those who do not follow
either microblogging site may view the feed. ARPSC Twitter Feed Twitter
Feed

Figure 6. ARPSC Twitter Feed


The section tries to keep the volume to a few tweets a week to prevent
followers from feeling that the feed is too burdensome. Many of the
tweets use the #hamr hash tag, causing those that follow amateur radio
tweets to also see the messages.


6.5. Online Meetings

Meetings within smaller groups are often held remotely. Simple phone
conferences are frequently used. In addition, Vyew allows documents to be
shared online during these phone conferences. An example of an online
meeting in Vyew is shown below: Example Online Meeting Vyew

Figure 7. Example Online Meeting


6.6. Wiki

The section also maintains a wiki which is used by the ARPSC leadership
to develop certain plans and strategies. A wiki allows all participants
to contribute asynchronously to a "document", which in many cases can be
helpful. Example Wiki Page Wiki Page

Figure 8. Example Wiki Page


The wiki is maintained on github which keeps a historical record and
allows easy rollback of changes if necessary.


7. Year over year comparisons
-----------------------------

It can be interesting to compare the current year to previous years, both
to spot longer term trends as well as pick up causes of variations which
may be used for improvements and remediation.


7.1. ARES

ARES hours across the emergency and public service categories are
relatively flat. As might be expected, emergency hours tend to be higher
in bad weather years. It is interesting that public service hours tend to
track emergency hours; perhaps indicating that active years also lead to
more reporting. Active years also tend to show an increase in drills. Not
only do active years encourage interest, but bad weather damages amateur
radio infrastructure as well, and programs tend to hold drills to test
newly repaired or installed equipment. The spike in Drills for 2011
should not be a surprise. Both the New Madrid Aftermath exercise and the
SET involved more effort and more amateurs than most previous drills.
ARES hours by category FSD-212 Results

Figure 9. ARES hours by category


7.2. NTS

The number of checkins experienced by the nets in the section has
remained relatively flat (notice that the entire Y axis only covers a
range of about 25%). It is not clear what caused the depression of
2007-2008. The drop for 2011 is probably somewhat permanent. The
Wolverine Net had been an NTS affiliated traffic net. Over the years the
traffic has dwindled, and last year that net asked to drop its
affiliation with NTS, and along with it, their reporting. In addition,
the Northern Lower Eastern Upper Peninsula net has been without
leadership, and hence, without reporting. Net Checkins Net Reports

Figure 10. Net Checkins


Traffic, however, has trended relentlessly upward. The steeper slope of
traffic reported by individuals, as compared to that reported by nets, is
probably due to two causes:

  1.  KB8RCR has been actively encouraging reporting, especially
    individual reporting. The number of amateurs reporting their station
    activity has increased significantly over the past few years.

  2.  More and more Michigan amateurs are becoming involved in Region and
    Area nets, and even in the Transcontinental Corps. These tend to be
    very high traffic stations, and much of their traffic does not appear
    on Michigan nets.

Traffic Traffic

Figure 11. Traffic


A. Revision History
-------------------

Revision History

Revision 1.0

Wed Feb 29 2012

John McDonough

Remove draft tag

Revision 0.2

Tue Feb 28 2012

John McDonough

Initial draft completed

Revision 0.1

Mon Feb 27 2012

John McDonough

Initial creation of book by publican


------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] $2.95 million based on the Independent Sector value of $21.36 per
volunteer hour for 2010. 2011 value was not yet available at the time of
this writing.
