Product SiteDocumentation Site

SET-2011



Exercise Strategy
=================


Strategy for the October SET
----------------------------


[IMAGE]


John McDonough

ARRL Michigan Sectionwb8rcr@arrl.net



Legal Notice
============

CopyrightÂ© 2011, Michigan Section ARRL The text of and illustrations in
this document are licensed by the Michigan Section of the American Radio
Relay League under a Creative Commons Attribution--Share Alike 3.0
Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/. The original authors of
this document designate the Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay
League as the "Attribution Party" for purposes of CC-BY-SA. In accordance
with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it,
you must provide the URL for the original version. The Michigan Section,
as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees
not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. The ARRL Diamond and logo, the ARES logo and the ARPSC
logo are registered trademarks of the American Radio Relay League in the
United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property
of their respective owners.

Abstract

Each October the ARRL holds a national event called the Simulated
Emergency Test. Although ARRL's view of this event is more of a contest,
it has been the practice of the Michigan Section to use the SET as an
exercise opportunity. For the past few years the Section has been using
exercises as an opportunity to improve the interface between the ARES and
NTS organizations. During the May 20011 National Level Event, additional
opportunities for improvement became apparent. This document is an
attempt to elucidate some ideas which would permit the 2011 Simulated
Emergency Test to be used to help move those improvements forward.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Introduction

2. Capabilities to be exercised

3. Issues to address

      3.1. SEOC as Net Control

      3.2. Interface between ARES and NTS

4. Possible Approaches

      4.1. ARES-NTS Relationships

      4.2. Liaison to the SEOC

      4.3. Net ownership of response duties

      4.4. "Outlier" nets

5. Exercise Evaluation

      5.1. No players at the evaluators conference

      5.2. Exercise Evaluation Guide

      5.3. After Action Evaluator's Conference

6. Specific Assignments

      6.1. District Emergency Coordinators

      6.2. Net Managers

A. Universal Task List - Common Capabilities

      A.1. Planning

      A.2. Resource Management

      A.3. Communications

      A.4. Training and Exercises

      A.5. Risk Management

B. Contact information for District Emergency Coordinators

C. Contact information for Net Managers

D. Preparedness Criteria

E. Target Capabilities List

      E.1. Common

      E.2. Prevent

      E.3. Protect

      E.4. Respond

      E.5. Recover

F. Revision History


1.Â Introduction
----------------

Each October, the ARRL holds a "Simulated Emergency Test". Although it
provides an excuse for an exercise, the SET is actually a contest. Unlike
most contests where points are awarded for the number of contacts and
number of sections contacted, points for SET are awarded for the number
of agencies involved. For several years, Michigan has used SET as an
excuse for an exercise, and has focused on various skills. In some years
we focused on packet, others on deployment, more recently we have been
working on the NTS interface. After the May NM11 exercise, a post
exercise meeting was held at the Midland Hamfest. A number of issues
became evident during the May exercise which were discussed. Much of the
discussion centered around congestion at the SEOC. With this backdrop,
this paper introduces some thoughts for the 2011 SET and how we might use
it to test some alternative methods for interfacing with the SEOC.


2.Â Capabilities to be exercised
--------------------------------

Exercises should be designed to test specific capabilities. FEMA has
provided a "Universal Task List", identifying the specific tasks reqiured
for responding to all hazards. These tasks are grouped into five areas;
an area for each of the emergency management missions, and a "Common
Capabilities" area representing those capabilities needed across all
missions:

  *  Common Capabilities

  *  Prevent

  *  Protect

  *  Respond

  *  Recover

Each of these areas is further subdivided. As communications providers,
much of our responsibility falls under the Common Capabilities area, and
especially the subcategory, "Communications". However, most of the tasks
within the Common Capabilities area apply to us, as do many of the tasks
within the other mission areas, especially Respond. A complete list of
the tasks witin the Common Capabilities area is included in the
appendices to this paper Based on the deficiencies exposed in the May
exercise, it would make sense to focus the next exercise on two tasks:

  *  ComA2.4.3.1 - Develop Standard Operating Procedures and Standard
    Operating Guides in support of Emergency Operations Plans

  *  ComC1.2.2 - Develop common communication and data standards to
    facilitate the exchange of information in support of response
    management

Clearly, many of the taks within the Communications section are
applicable to almost any action taken by ARES/RACES, but these two seem
appropriate areas of focus for this upcoming exercise. For reference, the
tasks within the "Common Capabilites" are listed in Appendix A. Appendix
E lists all the Target Capabilities, along with the top level headings
for the tasks within those capabilities. The entire Universal Task List
encompasses thousands of tasks.


3.Â Issues to address
---------------------

A number of issues have arisen in past exercises that should be
addressed. Not all will or should be addressed in a single exercise,
however, some of the key issues should be touched, and are enumerated
below.


3.1.Â SEOC as Net Control

On some occasions, the SEOC has atrempted to act as a net control
station. While at times this has worked, at other times, especially when
there is a lot of traffic or when the SEOC becomes particularly busy,
this has not worked well. Indeed, most counties have found that it is
better to run SKYWARN net control from an isolated location, so NCS may
focus on the net, and be isolated to a degree from operational
distractions. During some SEOC activations, the level of distraction at
the station, even though it is isolated from the SEOC proper, can be
substantial. Given the large number of stations that are active when the
SEOC station is active, it may not even make sense for the SEOC station
to join a net, let alone serve as NCS.


3.2.Â Interface between ARES and NTS

In recent exercises the Section has attempted to route most taffic
through NTS. This leads to a large number of advantages, and has worked
well. However, improvements are still possible. A few of the shortcomings
noted:

  *  NTS operators do not always know what frequency to report to or when

  *  ARES operators are unaware of nets or their capabilities

  *  ARES operators are unfamiliar with NTS procedures

  *  ARES operators are unfamiliar with directed nets

  *  NTS operators are unfamiliar with ARES procedures and organization

  *  NTS leadership does not take ownership of emergency operations


4.Â Possible Approaches
-----------------------

If one steps back and looks at what we are attempting, it seems we
largely have the capabilities in place, but have failed to exploit them.
It would seem that falling back to "standard" operational procedures, and
adding some permanance to the relationships may help significantly.


4.1.Â ARES-NTS Relationships

For this exercise, it is proposed that we implement what we hope to
become a more or less permanant relationship between the Affiliated
Section Nets and the ARES Districts. Each District will be assigned a
net, and each net a District, with the expectation that this relationship
will remain past the exercise, extending not only to future Section-wide
exercises, but quite possibly also to District and local exercises where
it becomes appropriate. It is expected that each Net Manager will develop
a relationship with a District Emergency Coordinator. In this way each
can develop an understanding of the skills, capabilities and needs of the
other. We have moved in this direction in earlier exercises, but never
with the intention that the relationship be more or less permanent. The
nets do not neatly overlay the Districts, so the relationship isn't
always obvious. Key criteria for matching the District with the net
should include such considerations as the net's coverage, distribution of
membership, and proximity of the Net Manager to the District Emergency
Coordinator.


4.2.Â Liaison to the SEOC

It has long been the practice of traffic nets to collect traffic on a
net, then send a liaison to another outlet to forward the traffic. Rather
than encourage congestion on the SEOC operating frequencies, it only
makes sense for the nets to each send a liaison to SEOC to bring traffic
to/from the SEOC station. Since the SEOC can operate two frequencies
simultaneously, and the nets need only one member to act as liaison to
the SEOC, rather than 83 stations all trying to contact the SEOC on a
single frequency, there would be only four stations on each of two
frequencies. This would imply that some phone nets would contact the SEOC
on CW, but all of the HF nets (at least) have some CW capable members.
Traffic Flow Traffic Flow

FigureÂ 1.Â Traffic Flow


The above figure outlines the proposal for alignment between Districts
and nets. Black lines indicate liaison with SEOC on 3.563 MHz, while
violet lines indicate contact on 3.932 MHz.


4.3.Â Net ownership of response duties

In previous exercises, nets were often micromanaged by the STM,
specifying meeting times, frequencies, etc. This worked better than
giving vague instructions to the net manager with the expectation that
they would "deal with it", but in the event of an actual incident, is
quite unrealstic. If they are to be at all useful in an actual event, the
nets must understand their responsibilities, and net managers must
develop strategies for activating their net at unusual times and/or
frequencies. By assigning Districts to nets more or less permanently, the
nets have a better defined scope, and a "customer" with whom they may
develop a relationship. For the coming SET (and hopefully future
exercises and incidents), it is expected that each Net Manager will
contact the corresponding District Emergency Coordinator and arrange net
schedules, frequencies, net controls and liaisons. Note that all nets
should expect to send a liaison to the SEOC early in the event, but other
times need to be worked out between the net and the District. Since
exercises typically last only a few hours, a net may choose to meet for
the duration of the event, or may elect to schedule specific times of
contact so that the counties have targeted times for which to prepare
traffic. While most nets may choose to meet on their normal frequencies,
note that the SEOC will be occupying the GLETN and QMN frequencies, which
happen to be the Michigan phone and CW emergency frequencies, so these
nets will need to select alternate frequences.


4.4.Â "Outlier" nets

There are a few affiliated nets which have unusual duties or are omitted.
There are seven districts and four NWS offices. The NWS offices do not
offer the complexity of a District; i.e. they have no further
subdivisions. There are some nets that share a Net Manager. Not every
District has a Net Manager residing in that District. This inevitably
leads to a certain amount of unevenness in how the nets are treated. The
strategy shown above attempts to minimize that unevenness. MITN and SEMTN
share a Net Manager. That Net Manager happens to reside in a district not
fully covered by SEMTN, but adjacent. That Net Manager has double work
for this exercise. TMMTN is in District 3, but covers only a small
fraction of that District. The Net Manager for TMMTN is also the Net
Manager for GLETN. In addition, GLETN has some special challenges, so
rather than assign that Net Manager double duty, TMMTN was left out of
the plan. GLETN has the widest coverage of all the nets, so that net was
assigned the 4 NWS offices which represent the most geographically
disparate group. There is considerable unevenness in the NWS offices, so
even though this assignment represents the smallest group of contacts, it
presents some special challenges. NLEUP is without a Net Manager and
appears to have been more or less dormant for some time. NLEUP has thus
been left out also. QMN has an assignment that is outside the District
where the Net Manager resides, similarly for MACS. However, both of these
Net Managers reside within repeater range of their served Districts and
both nets include membership from these Districts.


5.Â Exercise Evaluation
-----------------------

In order to gain as much as possible from the exercise, a more formal
evaluation will be used (although not quite as formal as expected in the
HSEEP). Each DEC is expected to recruit an evaluator who will not
participate in the exercise, but rather will stand by and observe. The
evaluator is expected to join a phone conference for evaluators prior to
the exercise.


5.1.Â No players at the evaluators conference

In order to maintain the integrity of the exercise, and especially the
evaluation, it is important that anyone who attends the evaluator
conference does not participate as a player in the exercise.


5.2.Â Exercise Evaluation Guide

The SEC will provide the evaluators with an Exercise Evaluation Guide
(EEG) prior to SET. This guide is only available to evaluators and will
be used by the evaluator during the exercise. In preparing the EEG, the
SEC will select a small number of the "Preparedness Criteria" listed by
FEMA for the tasks we are exercising. The complete list of the relevant
preparedness criteria may be found in Appendix D.


5.3.Â After Action Evaluator's Conference

Following the SET and the return of the EEGs to the SEC, an After Action
conference will be held with the evaluators and the controllers. Using
information collected in this conference, a draft After Action Report
will be developed. A second conference including Net Managers and DECs
will be held to finalize the report.


6.Â Specific Assignments
------------------------

Prior to the exercise the Net Managers and DECs need to take care of a
few details.


6.1.Â District Emergency Coordinators

Prior to SET each DEC should:

  *  Contact the appropriate Net Manager and arrange meeting times,
    frequencies (refer to Appendix B)

  *  Identify an evaluator for the District. The Evaluator should be
    expected to monitor the District's on the air activities during the
    SET, participate in the Evaluator's Conference on September 21,
    return the EEG to the SEC promptly, and participate in the
    Evaluator's After Action Conference. Advise the SEC of the Evaluator
    by September 14, providing call and contact information.

  *  Contact each member county, identify who intends to participate, and
    arrange for appropriate contact between the county and the District
    (in case the net frequency is expected to be congested or a county
    cannot muster the necessary capabilities).

  *  For each county, identify any served agencies that intend to
    participate, and provide that information to the Training and
    Exercise Officer no later than September 14 (hutchesonjohn@att.net).

  *  Remind each Emergency Coordinator that they should plan to send a
    report in to Headquarters following SET. Emergency Coordinators
    should report on "Form A" found at
    http://www.arrl.org/public-service-field-services-forms. Remind ECs
    that this report is much easier to fill out on the day of SET than
    later on after the details have become fuzzy.

  *  For each resource to be used, be aware of emergency power
    capabilities; type of power, running time available, ability to be
    reloaded.

  *  For any repeaters or other resources to be used, coordinate with the
    owners of those resources to ensure their availability for the SET.


6.2.Â Net Managers

Prior to the SET, each Net Manager should:

  *  Contact the appropriate DEC (refer to Appendix C) and arrange
    meeting times, frequencies, and get an understanding of the groups
    maturity with respect to traffic handling procedures and net
    discipline.

  *  Schedule net controls as needed for the event.

  *  Recruit liaison stations having the capability to contact the SEOC
    as well as to participate with the counties.

  *  Advise net members of meeting times, frequencies, and your
    expectations for the members.

  *  Be aware of each net member's emergency power capabilities. Remember
    that not all types of emergency power have the same useable lifetime.
    Keep in mind that, for example, it may not be possible to refuel a
    gasoline powered generator if there is a widespread outage, and gas
    stations will not be able to pump fuel. Consider fallbacks such as CW
    so that stations may extend their lifetime by operating at lower
    power. Alternatively, consider rotating NCS stations so that any one
    station's transmitting time is reduced. Note that in most cases, the
    SEOC is in a position to receive CW on the phone as well as CW
    frequency.

  *  Net Managers should review ARRL "Form B" found at
    http://www.arrl.org/public-service-field-services-forms and send in
    the completed form after the event. Net Managers should note that
    this is a pretty simple report if completed the day of the SET, but
    could be challenging if put off until near the due date of Feb, 2012.


A.Â Universal Task List - Common Capabilities
---------------------------------------------


A.1.Â Planning

ComA 1

Develop scalable strategic plans, based on normal response plans, to
prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from natural and
man-made disasters as well as acts of terrorism

ComA 1.1

Establish the National Response Plan

ComA 1.1.1

Facilitate implementation of the National Response Plan

ComA 1.1.2

Update and maintain the National Response Plan

ComA 1.1.2

Update and maintain the National Incident Management System

ComA 1.1.3

Develop regional, and State/local Strategic Plans

ComA 1.2

Establish the National Incident Management System

ComA 1.3

Establish and maintain a national preparedness assessment and reporting
system

ComA 1.3.1

Develop and coordinate jurisdictional preparedness programs

ComA 1.3.2

Develop a preparedness planning and review cycle that encompasses
planning, training, exercising, evaluation and the incorporation of After
Action Reviews (AAR) and Lessons Learned (LL)

ComA 1.3.2.1

Track implementation AARs and LLs for improvement and corrective actions
that enhance exercises and inform subsequent corrective training efforts

ComA 1.3.3

Develop and promulgate national preparedness security guidance and/or
best practices, policies and monitor conformance

ComA 1.3.4

Conduct gap analysis to identify training, exercise needs and to
facilitate investment and personnel decisions

ComA 2

Develop/Revise Operational Plans

ComA 2.1

Conduct a hazard analysis to identify threats, vulnerabilities, and
consequences to be addressed by emergency management plans

ComA 2.1.1

Establish readiness and response levels

ComA 2.1.2

Establish criteria for local disaster or emergency declarations

ComA 2.1.3

Develop and maintain Comprehensive Emergency Management Plans (CEMPs) or
similar emergency management/preparedness plans

ComA 2.2

Define and implement the responsibilities for standardized emergency
management system planning

ComA 2.2.1

Define responsibilities of agencies and departments

ComA 2.2.2

Coordinate and integrate all response and recovery agencies/organizations
in the planning process

ComA 2.2.3

Coordinate and integrate nongovernmental organizations and the
private-sector entities into emergency management planning and decision
making processes

ComA 2.3

Develop and execute mutual aid assistance agreements and compacts

ComA 2.3.1

Facilitate the development of international, regional, and inter- and
intra-State mutual aid agreements

ComA 2.3.2

Coordinate mutual aid agreements with public and private organizations

ComA 2.3.3

Develop regional coordination plans or activities that involve all
Federal, State, local, territorial, tribal, NGO, and private stakeholders

ComA 2.4

Develop Emergency Operations/Response Plans that describe how personnel,
equipment, and other governmental, nongovernmental, and private resources
will support and sustain incident management requirements

ComA 2.4.1

Develop procedures to maintain related emergency operations plans

ComA 2.4.2

Coordinate scientific and technical expertise in developing emergency
operations plans

ComA 2.4.3

Establish procedures for implementing emergency operations plans

ComA 2.4.3.1

Develop Standard Operating Procedures and Standard Operating Guides in
support of Emergency Operations Plans

ComA 2.4.3.2

Develop protocols for joint investigation

ComA 2.4.3.3

Develop emergency response protocols with private-sector partners

ComA 2.4.4

Develop procedures that translates tasking to an organization into
specific action-oriented checklists for incident management operations

ComA 2.5

Develop and maintain Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) annexes for hazard
specific response to include natural and man-made disasters as well as
acts of terrorism, and other hazards

ComA 2.6

Develop plans for military support to civil authority

ComA 2.7

Develop National, State/Local, and Non-Governmental Continuity Plans.
All-level Continuity Plans will describe how personnel, equipment, and
other governmental, non-governmental, and private resources will support
the sustainment and/or reestablishment of essential functions. Plans
shall identify the critical and time sensitive applications, processes,
and functions, to be recovered and continued, following an emergency or
disaster, as well as the personnel and procedures necessary to do so,
such as business impact analysis, business continuity management, vital
records preservation and alternate operating facilities

ComA 2.7.1

Establish and implement an order of command succession or continuity
consistent with NIMS

ComA 2.7.2

Identify alternate work sites and essential tasks/functions

ComA 2.8

Develop cooperative plans and means to respond across international
borders

ComA 2.9

Establish organization and leadership of regional and State emergency
management structure

ComA 2.9.1

Develop organizational structure of regional and State EOC

ComA 2.9.1.1

Establish roles and responsibilities of regional and State EOC

ComA 2.9.1.2

Coordinate with unions and private-sector groups concerning
employee/employer issues

ComA 2.9.1.3

Organize liaison structure for supporting organizations

ComA 2.9.1.4

Identify and define liaison staff responsibilities and responsibilities
to support incident prevention and response activities

ComA 2.9.1.5

Designate liaison representatives to incident response management
structure

ComA 2.9.2

Identify, develop, and convene local preparedness planning
organization(s)

ComA 2.9.3

Facilitate implementation of the National Incident Management System

ComA 2.9.4

Address other specific communication issues in planning

ComA 3

Validate Plans

ComA 3.1

Develop exercises/drills of sufficient intensity to challenge management
and operations and to test the knowledge, skills, and abilities of
individuals and organizations

ComA 3.2

Develop integrated national, regional, and State/local level
exercises/drills

ComA 3.3

Develop regional, and State/local level exercises of sufficient intensity
to challenge management and operations and test knowledge, skill and
abilities of individuals and organizations

ComA 3.4

Develop lessons learned reports and procedures based on real world events
and exercises

ComA 3.5

Develop, review, evaluate and update emergency management and/or
preparedness plans based on lessons learned and/or AARs to address
problems/gaps and needed corrective actions

ComA 3.6

Ensure that trained, exercised and equipped personnel are available to
execute all planning requirements as determined by applicable standards
of proficiency

TableÂ A.1.Â Common A - Planning


A.2.Â Resource Management

ComB 1

Develop resource management plans, policies, procedures, and systems

ComB 1.1

Develop systems for resource recovery and rehabilitation, replenishment,
disposition and retrograding

ComB 1.1.1

Develop reimbursement programs and processes to maintain readiness of
resources

ComB 1.2

Develop plans, policies, procedures, and systems to coordinate
non-governmental support and resources

ComB 1.2.1

Develop plans, policies, and protocols for coordination and deployment of
private industry

ComB 1.2.2

Review and update resource typing under FEMA National Mutual Aid Resource
Aid and Resource Management inventory to reflect animal health
requirements

ComB 1.3

Develop plans, policies, procedures and systems for financial management
support

ComB 1.3.1

Establish standardized financial management controls, guidance, and
organization

ComB 1.3.2

Develop State and local commitment documents for reimbursement of
response costs and activate support agreements for supplemental staffing

ComB 1.3.2.1

Issue secretary's request to transfer additional funds within the
department, if needed

ComB 1.3.2.2

Identify liaisons and personnel responsible for financial management
response operations

ComB 1.3.2.3

Maintain records of agencies engaged in financial management response
operations

ComB 1.4

Identify and prioritize capabilities for emergency operations

ComB 1.4.1

Identify resources required

ComB 1.4.2

Develop lists of required personal protective equipment and the training
required to operate it

ComB 1.4.2.1

Maintain current estimates of responder availability

ComB 1.4.2.2

Develop a multi jurisdictional decision matrix

ComB 1.4.2.3

Identify resource shortfalls and means of procurement

ComB 1.4.3

Assess industry and community response capabilities

ComB 1.4.4

Apply Federal guidelines and laws

ComB 2

Develop and implement personnel qualification and certification programs

ComB 2.1

Facilitate the development and leveraging of existing qualifications and
certifications and dissemination of international, national, regional,
State standards, guidelines and protocols for qualifications and
certification

ComB 2.2

Review and approve requirements submitted by functionally oriented
incident management organizations and associations of national, regional,
and State governments

ComB 2.3

Facilitate the development of integrated national, regional and State
data systems to provide incident managers with detailed qualification,
experience, and training information needed to credential personnel

ComB 2.4

Develop personnel qualifications and certifications for NIMS specified
roles

ComB 3

Develop and implement equipment acquisition and certification standards

ComB 3.1

Facilitate the dissemination of national standards, guidelines, and
protocols for equipment certification region and Statewide

ComB 3.2

Develop and publish national standards, guidelines and protocols for
equipment certification

ComB 3.3

Review and approve lists of emergency responder equipment that meet
national certification standards

ComB 3.4

Identify and integrate agencies and organizations currently involved in
certifying equipment to ensure that changes to protocols to meet new
standards can be instituted efficiently

ComB 4

Develop and implement national authentication security certification
system for use at all levels of jurisdictions and agencies

ComB 4.1

Develop credential policy for access to key facilities

ComB 4.2

Coordinate required qualifications of responders

ComB 4.3

Coordinate required qualifications of responders

ComB 5

Establish and maintain process for obtaining scientific and technological
resources and other support for preparedness

ComB 5.1

Develop a strategy to obtain scientific and technological support

ComB 5.1.1

Conduct knowledge exchange with industry and education institution

ComB 5.1.2

Establish strategic research and development policies and procedures

ComB 5.1.3

Establish collaboration forum for incident management among national
incident management system partners

ComB 5.1.4

Develop technology standards for government and private sector

ComB 5.2

Develop science and technology concepts and principles

ComB 5.2.1

Identify technology support to enhance all aspects of incident management
and emergency response including data exchange of as-built building plan,
evacuation plans and other technical data

ComB 5.2.2

Participate in development of national standards by preparedness
organization, building and fire code organizations and national voluntary
standards bodies

ComB 5.2.3

Provide means for aggregating and prioritizing new technology from the
local to the national-level

ComB 5.2.4

Coordinate basic, applied, developmental, and demonstration research,
testing, and evaluation activities across the incident life cycle

ComB 5.2.4.1

Coordinate basic, applied, developmental, and demonstration research to
support technologies that harden structures including such things as
preventing progressive collapse of buildings, reduce vulnerability of
building electrical, mechanical and plumbing

ComB 5.3

Provide science and technology support to incident management

ComB 5.3.1

Gather operational scientific support from Federal, State and local
agencies and incident management preparedness organizations

ComB 5.3.2

Requisition and provide operational scientific support via national
incident management system

ComB 5.3.3

Research and develop technologies for detecting chemical, biological,
radiological, and explosive material

ComB 5.3.4

Validate analytical methods to detect biological, chemical, radiological
and nuclear material

ComB 5.3.4.1

Develop analytical methods

ComB 5.3.4.2

Validate methods

ComB 5.3.4.3

Deploy detection systems

ComB 5.3.4.4

Exercise/validate deployed systems

ComB 5.3.4.5

Develop and promulgate associated consequence management procedures

ComB 5.3.4.6

Develop, analyze and determine effectiveness of consequence management
procedures

ComB 5.3.4.7

Conduct incident management research and development

ComB 5.3.4.8

Develop and provide high tech equipment to support building officials to
locate and assess buildings following a disaster

ComB 5.4

Coordinate the establishment of technical standards for national incident
management system users

ComB 5.4.1

Establish a performance measurements infrastructure

ComB 5.4.2

Develop consensus-based performance standards among standards development
organizations

ComB 5.4.3

Establish working relationships among incident management organizations

ComB 5.5

Evaluate communications and response equipment against national incident
management system technical standards

ComB 5.5.1

Establish private and public sector testing laboratories

ComB 5.5.2

Issue guidelines to ensure testing organizations are technically
proficient and objective

ComB 5.6

Conduct R&D planning for national incident management system users

ComB 5.6.1

Determine operational needs of national incident management system users

ComB 5.6.2

Validate, integrate, and prioritize user needs

ComB 5.6.3

Submit user needs in development of incident management R&D agenda

ComB 5.6.4

Coordinate R&D with preparedness organizations at all levels

ComB 5.6.5

Integrate incident management into the national R&D agenda

ComB 5.7

Develop scientifically-based technical guidelines for use of emergency
response equipment

ComB 5.7.1

Gather inputs from vulnerability analysis, equipment developers and
standards experts

ComB 5.7.2

Account for threat and vulnerability, and equipment and system
capabilities, under varying conditions in developing training guidelines

ComB 5.8

Enhance laboratory capabilities and capacities to enable protection from
a wide spectrum of traditional and non-traditional agents

ComB 5.8.1

Establish local awareness regarding a requirement to use the laboratory
response network (LRN) to confirm biological agents

ComB 5.9

Facilitate the improvement of analytical and technical capabilities in
screening, surveillance, monitoring, detection and testing

TableÂ A.2.Â Common B - Resource Management


A.3.Â Communications

ComC 1

Develop communication plans, policies, procedures, and systems that
support required communications with all Federal, regional, State, local
and tribal governments and agencies as well as voluntary agencies

ComC 1.1

Establish policies and procedures for communications and warnings

ComC 1.1.1

Develop a continuous improvement plan that enriches interoperable
communications to provide advanced customer service, reliability, and
operational effectiveness

ComC 1.2

Develop interoperability and compatibility criteria

ComC 1.2.1

Develop procedures for the exchange of voice and data with Federal,
regional, State, local and tribal agencies as well as voluntary agencies

ComC 1.2.2

Develop common communication and data standards to facilitate the
exchange of information in support of response management

ComC 1.2.2.1

Establish common response communications language

ComC 1.2.2.2

Develop a standard set of data elements for sharing information (e.g.,
status and pollution) across regional, State and local agencies

ComC 1.2.2.3

Facilitate the development of sampling and data collection information
exchange standards

ComC 1.2.2.4

Facilitate the development of geospatial information exchange standards

ComC 1.2.3

Facilitate the development of wireless communication and computer
procedures and protocols to permit interoperability between government
and local public safety organizations

ComC 1.3

Establish and maintain information systems across response entities

ComC 1.3.1

Develop interoperable telecommunication and Information Technology
systems across governmental departments and agencies

ComC 1.3.2

Develop and maintain surveillance and detection systems

ComC 1.3.2.1

Develop and maintain geographic information systems (GIS)

ComC 1.3.2.2

Develop and maintain the health alert network

ComC 1.3.2.3

Establish role of National Biosurveillance Integration System (NBIS) at
the EOC

ComC 1.3.4

Coordinate with telecommunications service providers to ensure all
telecommunications service requirements are satisfied

ComC 1.4

Design reliable, redundant, and robust communications systems for daily
operations capable of quickly reconstituting normal operations in the
event of disruption or destruction

ComC 1.4.1

Design reliable, redundant, and robust communications systems for daily
operations capable of quickly reconstituting normal operations in the
event of disruption or destruction

ComC 1.4.1.1

Establish role of the operation area satellite system (OASIS) at the EOC

ComC 1.4.2

Establish a secure and redundant communications system that ensures
connectivity between health care facilities and health departments,
emergency medical services, emergency management agencies, public safety
agencies, blood collection agencies, building departments, neighboring
jurisdictions and Federal health officials

ComC 1.4.3

Establish a national database of incident reports to support response
management efforts and analysis

ComC 1.5

Develop information systems protection procedures

ComC 1.5.1

Develop and maintain automated credential verification systems to ensure
proper credentialing for controlled access areas

ComC 1.5.2

Coordinate the maintenance and safeguarding of key records, building
plans and documents

ComC 1.5.3

Establish a national authentication and security identification
certification system for emergency responders, Federal, State, local and
tribal personnel and other nongovernmental personnel requiring access to
affected areas

ComC 1.6

Develop supplemental and back-up communications and information
technology plans, procedures, and systems

ComC 1.6.1

Promote and facilitate the development of redundant communications
networks

ComC 1.6.2

Identify emergency communications and data requirements for each
stakeholder

ComC 1.6.3

Identify emergency communications staff roles and responsibilities

ComC 1.6.4

Identify available operational telecommunication assets needs for use on
and off-incident site

ComC 1.6.5

Complete an assessment of standard communication capabilities for the
Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) and Public Safety Communication
Centers to ensure an appropriate Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) is
in place for public safety and service agencies' communications

ComC 1.7

Implement the national telecommunication support plan

ComC 1.7.1

Identify priority telecommunications programs and services

ComC 1.7.2

Coordinate procurement and placement of technology communication systems
based on a gap analysis of requirements versus existing capabilities

ComC 1.7.3

Develop plans to provide telecommunication and information technology
support to Federal, regional, State, local and tribal officials and the
private sector

ComC 2

Develop and Implement Training and Exercise Programs for Response
Communications

ComC 2.1

Develop and Implement Training Programs for Response Communications

ComC 2.1.1

Develop and implement awareness training programs for response
communications

ComC 2.1.2

Develop exercises/drills of sufficient intensity to challenge management
and operations and to test the knowledge, skills, and abilities of
individuals and organizations for response communications

ComC 2.2

Develop and Implement Exercise Programs for Response Communications

ComC 2.2.1

Develop and conduct training to improve all-hazard incident management
capability for response communications

ComC 2.2.2

Conduct an after action review to determine strengths and shortfalls and
develop a corrective plan accordingly for response communications

ComC 3

Conduct alert and dispatch notification

ComC 3.1

Dispatch first responders

ComC 3.2

Dispatch secondary response agencies

ComC 3.3

Implement government and NGO agency notification protocols and procedures

ComC 3.4

Request external resources using EMAC and other mutual aid/assistance
processes (inter- and intra-State)

ComC 4

Provide Incident Command/First Responder/First Receiver/Interoperable
Communications

ComC 4.1

Establish and maintain response communications systems on-site

ComC 4.1.1

Verify immediately that critical communication links among first
responders are functioning

ComC 4.2

Implement response communications interoperability plans and protocols

ComC 4.2.1

Communicate internal incident response information

ComC 4.2.1.1

Use established common response communications language (i.e., plain
English)

ComC 4.2.2

Coordinate incident site communications within a National Incident
Management System (NIMS) compliant framework

ComC 4.2.3

Report and document the incident by completing and submitting required
forms, reports, documentation, and follow-up notations on immediate
response communications

ComC 4.3

Implement information systems protection procedures

ComC 5

Provide EOC Communications Support

ComC 5.1

Develop NIMS compliant incident site communications plan

ComC 5.2

Establish and maintain communications organization/operation with
EOC/MACC

ComC 5.3

Establish and maintain interoperable information systems within EOC

ComC 5.3.1

Establish communications resource requirements

ComC 5.3.1.1

Coordinate placement of latest technology that is available to agencies
participating in response

ComC 5.3.1.2

Coordinate and provide telecommunication and information technology
support to Federal, regional, State, local and tribal officials and the
private sector

ComC 5.3.1.3

Coordinate and open State communications support/channels to local and
tribal government and the private-sector to assist in awareness,
prevention, response and recovery communication activities

ComC 5.3.2

Implement communication security procedures and systems

ComC 5.3.3

Assure redundant communications circuits/channels are available for use

ComC 5.3.4

Activate back-up information systems as needed

ComC 5.4

Coordinate communications policy and procedures across response entities

ComC 5.4.1

Disseminate information to emergency managers and responders

ComC 5.4.2

Coordinate with the response organization and other responders to share
information

ComC 5.4.3

Coordinate information transfer between and among Incident Command Post

ComC 5.4.4

Coordinate information transfer from the incident scene to the MACS (e.g.
Emergency Operations Center (EOC))

ComC 5.4.5

Provide direction, information, and/or support as appropriate to the
incident command (IC), unified command (UC), and/or joint field office(s)

ComC 5.4.6

Provide response information across jurisdictional boundaries

ComC 5.5

Maintain a common operating picture (COP) for real time sharing of
information with all the participating entities to ensure all responder
agencies are working from the same information

ComC 5.6

Monitor communications and information systems

ComC 5.6.1

Develop incident log

ComC 5.6.2

Update responder information

ComC 6

Provide Federal Facilities, Task Force, and Recovery Assistance
Interoperable Communications

ComC 7

Return communication system to normal operations

ComC 7.1

Initiate interoperable deactivation procedures

ComC 7.2

Assist in deactivation of telecommunication resources and assets .

ComC 7.3

Maintain audit and reports on all telecommunications support provided.

TableÂ A.3.Â Common C - Communications


A.4.Â Training and Exercises

ComD 1

Develop and conduct training to improve all-hazard incident management
capability

ComD 1.1

Develop preparedness plans for identifying and meeting training needs

ComD 1.1.1

Conduct gap analysis to identify training needs

ComD 1.2

Develop and disseminate national standards, guidelines and protocols, for
incident management training and exercises

ComD 1.2.1

Facilitate the definition of general training requirements and approved
training courses for all NIMS users

ComD 1.3

Develop standardized training courses

ComD 1.3.1

Develop standardized training courses on incident command and management,
structure, coordination, processes, and procedures

ComD 1.3.2

Develop standardized training courses focused on discipline-specific and
agency-specific subject-matter expertise applicable to all jurisdictions
and sectors for all incident management

ComD 1.3.2

Provide information through training on how to access Federal subject
matter experts and necessary Federal assets

ComD 1.3.2.1

Review and approve discipline-specific requirements and courses

ComD 1.3.3

Develop and conduct training courses for the incident command safety
officer emphasizing all-hazards approach to responder health and safety

ComD 1.3.4

Develop training for non-responder personnel

ComD 1.4

Implement standardized training courses

ComD 1.4.1

Coordinate training of responders, emergency staffs, health care
providers and trainees

ComD 1.4.2

Coordinate training of emergency operations center staff

ComD 1.4.2.1

Maintain and expand training and exercise programs to prepare volunteers
for terrorism incident support

ComD 1.4.3

Coordinate training with mutual aid and volunteer organizations and
volunteers to assist with response service needs

ComD 1.4.4

Train elected officials on incident command structure and emergency
management responsibilities

ComD 1.4.5

Develop and conduct refresher training course in a condensed form that
emphasizes any changes or additions

ComD 1.4.6

Ensure that trained and equipped personnel are available to execute the
planning requirements

ComD 1.5

Evaluate standardized training courses

ComD 1.5.1

Develop readiness assessments of responders and emergency staffs

ComD 1.5.2

Evaluate training through multiple methods including drills and exercises

ComD 1.5.3

Identify existing training courses that can be incorporated into a master
list that addresses the new critical aspects of incident management
including the interaction of skilled support workers and traditional
first responders including building official

ComD 2

Develop exercises/drills of sufficient intensity to challenge management
and operations and to test the knowledge, skills, and abilities of
individuals and organizations

ComD 2.1

Participate in jurisdictional, regional, interState and cross border
exercises

ComD 2.2

Develop a process to review and analyze lessons learned from real-world
incidents and exercises/evaluations for best practices to implement
corrections and update plans

ComD 2.2.1

Develop lessons learned reports and procedures

ComD 2.2.2

Review incident after-action reports and update preparedness plan

ComD 2.2.3

Develop and review after-action reports (AAR) to identify problems and
lessons learned

ComD 2.2.4

Develop plan to correct problems and evaluate AAR improvement/corrective
actions

ComD 2.2.5

Track implementation of lessons learned and AAR improvement/corrective
actions

ComD 2.2.6

Collect and compile best practices from industry and government to
enhance existing security practices

ComD 2.2.7

Develop improvement/corrective action and mitigation plans

TableÂ A.4.Â Common D - Training and Exercises


A.5.Â Risk Management

ComE 1

Develop Risk Framework

ComE 1.1

Ensure senior leadership communicates in writing the risk framework and
intent to use risk analysis to all stakeholders

ComE 2

Assess Risks

ComE 2.1

Conduct criticality analysis (also known as screening) to identify
potential targets

ComE 2.2

Conduct vulnerability assessments to assess vulnerability of potential
targets to identified threats

ComE 2.3

Conduct consequence analysis of critical targets

ComE 2.4

Conduct threat assessment of potential targets

ComE 2.4.1

Conduct or obtain intelligence community threat/hazard analysis through
State or local Interagency Working Groups (Joint Terrorism Task Force) to
identify threats to potential targets

ComE 2.4.2

Obtain intelligence reporting and the receipt of the threat data through
the Department of Homeland Securityâs Homeland Infrastructure Threat
and Risk Analysis Center (HITRAC)

ComE 2.5

Calculate risk to potential targets based on threat, vulnerability, and
consequence

ComE 2.6

Establish relative order of priorities for risk mitigation among risk
portfolio

ComE 2.7

Conduct response and recovery capabilities analysis to determine
capability to respond to and recover from the occurrence of identified
risks

ComE 3

Prioritize Risks

ComE 3.1

Identify potential protection, prevention, and mitigation strategies for
high-risk targets

ComE 3.2

Prioritize identified strategies by risk reduction expected outcomes
appreciating the various threat, vulnerabilities, and consequences that
affect that community, system or asset

ComE 4

Develop Business Case

ComE 4.1

Select risk reduction solutions for implementation based on risk
reduction strategies

ComE 5

Manage Risk

ComE 5.1

Monitor the progress of solution implementation

ComE 5.1.1

Undertake corrective actions

ComE 6

Conduct Risk Communication

ComE 6.1

Share the assessment of sector-specific infrastructure risk with
interdependent entities within appropriate sectors

TableÂ A.5.Â Common E - Risk Management


B.Â Contact information for District Emergency Coordinators
-----------------------------------------------------------

The following table lists the contact information for the Net Manager
each DEC will contact, by DEC call.

DEC

NET

Net Manager

Contact

KI8AF

GLETN

Grant Watson, K8VFZ

810-982-7488 k8vfz@arrl.net

WD8DX

GLETN

Grant Watson, K8VFZ

810-982-7488 k8vfz@arrl.net

KC8ZTJ

MACS

John Wehmer, WB9JSR

616-604-0510 wb9jsr@arrl.net

KG8NK

UP

Aileen Gagnon, WA8DHB

906-428-9789

N8OSL

MITN

Jeff Miller, WB8WKQ

248-330-9335 seismadude2@yahoo.com

WA8RLI

MDTN

Ed Bassett, N8FVM

989-821-7729 n8fvm@arrl.net

KB8VEE

MVTN

Jean Young, AC8AR

231-893-3341 ac8ar@arrl.net

N8VLN

GLETN

Grant Watson, K8VFZ

810-982-7488 k8vfz@arrl.net

WF5X

SEMTN

Jeff Miller, WB8WKQ

248-330-9335 seismadude2@yahoo.com

K8YZA

QMN

Anne Travis, K8AE

313-563-0177 annesivart@woway.com

N8ZSA

GLETN

Grant Watson, K8VFZ

810-982-7488 k8vfz@arrl.net

TableÂ B.1.Â DEC contact assignments


C.Â Contact information for Net Managers
----------------------------------------

The following table lists the contact information for the District
Emergency Coordinator each Net Manager will contact, by Net Manager
callsign.

Net Manager

District

DEC

Contact

K8AE

1

Joseph Pullen, K8YZA

517-547-6794 jpullen007@comcast.net

AC8AR

6

Tom VanderMel, KB8VEE

231-206-0422 kb8vee@arrl.net

WA8DHB

8

Lou Gembolis, KG8NK

906-485-5442 lgembolis@chartermi.net

N8FVM

7

Thomas 'Red' Duggan, WA8RLI

586-413-2831 wa8rli@arrl.net

WB9JSR

5

John Mathieson, KC8ZTJ

jspokes@chartermi.net

K8VFZ

APX

Jeff Morey, WD8DX

989-390-1133 WD8DX@yahoo.com

K8VFZ

DTX

Ted Davis, N8ZSA

248-842-4077 n8zsa@aol.com

K8VFZ

GRR

Michael Gage, N8VLN

616-538-0502 mrgage1@sbcglobal.net

K8VFZ

MQT

Greg Hanson, KI8AF

906-225-1594 glhanson1783@sbcglobal.net

WB8WKQ

2

Randy Love, WF5X

586-803-1967 wf5x@arrl.net

WB8WKQ

3

Joe Tuscher, N8OSL

810-908-3089 jt14888@aol.com

TableÂ C.1.Â Net Manager contact assignments


D.Â Preparedness Criteria
-------------------------

the following tables show the FEMA criteria for evaluating readiness
against the capabilities to be tested. Note that the preparedness
criteria address multiple capabilities, and many of the criteria are not
applicable to ARES/RACES.

Preparedness Measures

Metric

Continuity of Operation (COOP) plans describe how personnel, equipment,
and other resources support sustained response/survivability and recovery
for all sectors

Yes/No

Continuity of Government (COG) plans describe the continued functioning
of constitutional government under all circumstances

Yes/No

Emergency response plans are consistent with the National Response Plan
(NRP) and National Incident Management System (NIMS)

Yes/No

Mutual aid assistance agreements are in place with contiguous
jurisdictions

Yes/No

Preparedness plans are consistent with NRP and NIMS

Yes/No

Aid assistance agreements or contracts with private organizations are in
place

Yes/No

Pre-identified mechanisms to request assistance from counties, the State,
or the Federal Government are in place

Yes/No

Emergency response plans address substantial loss of public safety
response capabilities during catastrophic events (to include special
needs populations and people with disabilities)

Yes/No

Frequency with which plans are reviewed and updated to ensure compliance
with governmental regulations and policies (Review requirements are
intended to apply only when no pre-existing review cycle has been
established in Federal, State, or local requirements)

12 months

TableÂ D.1.Â Preparedness Criteria for Com.A2


Preparedness Measures

Metric

Operable communications systems that are supported by redundancy and
diversity, that provide service across jurisdictions, and that meet
everyday internal agency requirements, are in place

Yes/No

Communication systems support on-demand, real-time interoperable voice
and data communication

Yes/No

Plans and procedures are in place to ensure appropriate levels of
planning and building public safety communication systems prior to an
incident

Yes/No

Plans and procedures are in place to ensure appropriate levels of
upgrading/enhancing public safety communication systems and equipment
prior to an incident

Yes/No

Plans and procedures are in place to ensure appropriate levels of
replacing public safety communication systems and equipment prior to an
incident

Yes/No

Plans and procedures are in place to ensure appropriate levels of
maintaining public safety communication systems and equipment prior to an
incident

Yes/No

Plans and procedures are in place to ensure appropriate levels of
managing public safety communication projects prior to an incident

Yes/No

Assessment of standard communication capabilities for Public Safety
Answering Points (PSAP)/Public Safety Communication Centers and Emergency
Operations Centers (EOC) to ensure appropriate Continuity of Operations
Plan (COOP) for public safety and service agencies' communications has
been completed

Yes/No

Communications Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) that outlines back-up
systems available at State and local levels, including protocols for use
of systems, is in place

Yes/No

Communications standard operating procedures (SOPs) that conform to NIMS
are in place and are used in routine multiple jurisdictional responses

Yes/No

Interoperability policies and procedures to allow information sharing
between levels of government and Federal installations involved in
incident, as necessary and as possible, are in place

Yes/No

Redundant and diverse interoperable communication systems are available

Yes/No

Plans to coordinate the procurement of communications assets to ensure
interoperability are in place

Yes/No

Plans to acquire and influence sustained interoperability and systems
maintenance funding have been developed

Yes/No

Plans include a procedure to return communications back to normal
operations after each significant incident

Yes/No

A multi-agency and multi-jurisdictional governance structure to improve
communications interoperability planning and coordination has been
established

Yes/No

Formal interoperable communications agreements have been established
through the governance structure

Yes/No

Interoperability communications plans have been developed through
governance structure and include all relevant agencies for data and voice
communications.

Yes/No

TableÂ D.2.Â Preparedness Criteria for Com.C2


E.Â Target Capabilities List
----------------------------

There are 37 target capabilities. Associated with the target capabilities
are thousands of tasks. The following sections list those fapabillities
for each mission, along with the top-level headings for the associated
tasks.


E.1.Â Common

PLANNING

RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

COMMUNICATIONS

TRAINING AND EXERCISES

RISK MANAGEMENT


E.2.Â Prevent

INFORMATION GATHERING AND RECOGNITION OF INDICATORS AND WARNINGS

INTELLIGENCE ANALYSIS AND PRODUCTION

COUNTER-TERROR INVESTIGATION AND LAW ENFORCEMENT

CBRNE DETECTION

  *  A1a Identification and Tracking of Suspected Terrorists

  *  A1b Information Gathering and Recognition of Indicators and Warning

  *  A1c Intelligence Analysis and Production

  *  A1d Intelligence/Information Sharing

  *  A1e CBRNE Detection

  *  A2a Identification and Tracking of Terrorist Motivations

  *  A3a Recognition and Tracking of Extremism

  *  A3b Determination and Tracking of Terrorist Support

  *  A4a Determination of Terrorist Ability to Execute Threats

  *  B1a Pre-Entry Detection

  *  B2a Port of Entry Inspection

  *  B2b Infrastructure/Facility Access Screening

  *  B2c Transportation Screening

  *  B2d Credentialing

  *  B3a Border Control

  *  C1a Law Enforcement Investigation and Operations

  *  C2a Interdiction/Seizure of Materials

  *  C3a Defeat of Weapons

  *  C3b Denial of Access to Materials that may be Weaponized

  *  C5a Prosecution of Suspects


E.3.Â Protect

CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION

FOOD AND AGRICULTURE SAFETY AND DEFENSE

EPIDEMIOLOGICAL SURVEILLANCE AND INVESTIGATION

LABORATORY TESTING

  *  A1a Critical Infrastructure Protection

  *  A2a Defense and Devaluation of Physical Assets & Systems

  *  A3a Defense and Devaluation of Cyber Assets & Systems

  *  B1a Epidemiological Surveillance and Investigation

  *  B1b Food and Agricultural Safety and Defense

  *  B1c Environmental Monitoring

  *  B1d Natural Hazard Monitoring

  *  B1e Public Health Laboratory Testing

  *  B2a Stockpile Management

  *  B3a Mitigation and Life Safety Protection

  *  B4a Community Preparedness and Participation


E.4.Â Respond

ON-SITE INCIDENT MANAGEMENT

EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTER MANAGEMENT

CRITICAL RESOURCE LOGISTICS AND DISTRIBUTION

VOLUNTEER MANAGEMENT AND DONATIONS

RESPONDER SAFETY AND HEALTH

EMERGENCY PUBIC SAFETY AND SECURITY RESPONSE

ANIMAL DISEASE EMERGENCY SUPPORT

ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH

EXPLOSIVE DEVICE RESPONSE OPERATIONS

FIRE INCIDENT RESPNSE SUPPORT

WMD AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAS RESPONSE AND DECOMTAMINATION

CITIZEN EVACUATION AND SHELTER-IN-PLACE

ISOLATION AND QUARANTINE

SEARCH AND RESCUE (LAND BASED)

EMERGENCY TRIAGE AND PER-HOSPITAL TREATMENT

MEDICAL SURGE

MEDICAL SUPPLIES MANAGEMENT AND DISTRIBUTION

MASS PROPHYLAXIS

MASS CARE (SHELTERING, FEEDING AND RELATED SERVICES)

FATALITY MANAGEMENT

  *  A1a Scene and Consequence Management

  *  A2a Incident Scene Investigation

  *  B1a On-Site Incident Management

  *  B1b Responder Safety and Health

  *  B1c Emergency Operations Center Management

  *  B1d Critical Resource Logistics and Distribution

  *  B1e Volunteer Management and Donations

  *  B1f Emergency Public Information and Warning

  *  B2a Firefighting Operations and Support

  *  B2b WMD/ Hazardous Materials Response and Decontamination Operations

  *  B2c Explosive Detection Response Operations

  *  B2d Animal Health Emergency Support

  *  B3a Citizen Evacuation or Shelter in Place

  *  B3b Isolation and Quarantine

  *  B3c Environmental Health

  *  B3d Public Safety and Security Response

  *  B4a Urban Search and Rescue

  *  B4b Water Search and Rescue

  *  C1a Triage and Pre-Hospital Treatment

  *  C1b Medical Surge

  *  C1c Medical Supplies Management and Distribution

  *  C2a Mass Prophylaxis

  *  C3a Mass Care (Sheltering, Feeding, and Related Services)

  *  C4a Fatality Management


E.5.Â Recover

STRUCTURAL DAMAGE ASSESSMENT

RESTORATION OF LIFELINES

ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY RECOVERY

  *  A1a Long-Term Healthcare

  *  A2a Long-term Assistance for Affected Persons

  *  A2b Resettlement and Repatriation of Affected Persons

  *  B1a Debris and Hazardous Waste Management

  *  B2a Site Remediation

  *  B3a Natural Resource Restoration

  *  C1a Restoration of Lifelines

  *  C2a Reconstitution of Government Services

  *  C3a Economic and Community Recovery

  *  C3b Structural Damage and Mitigation Assessment

  *  C4a Restoration of Economy & Institutions

  *  C4a Restoration of Economy & Institutions


F.Â Revision History
--------------------

Revision History

Revision 1-3

Mon Sep 19 2011

John McDonough

Additional typos

More introduction to appendices

KC8ZTJ acting DEC for D5

Revision 1-2

Wed Sep 7 2011

John McDonough

Correct typos

Revision 1-1

Tue Sep 6 2011

John McDonough

Correct N8FVM call

Add evaluation criteria

Add target capabilities

Revision 1-0

Sun Sep 4 2011

John McDonough

Correct typos, additional touch up

Revision 0-1

Sun Sep 4 2011

John McDonough

First complete draft

Revision 0-0

Thu Aug 25 2011

John McDonough

Initial creation of book by publican
