Product SiteDocumentation Site

Exercise 12-1



Participant Guide
=================


Spring 2012 Digital Drill
-------------------------


[IMAGE]


John McDonough

American Radio Relay League Michigan SectionDude.McPants@example.com



Legal Notice
============

CopyrightÂ© 2012, Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League The
text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by the Michigan
Section of the American Radio Relay League under a Creative Commons
Attribution--Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An
explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/. The original authors of
this document designate the Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay
League as the "Attribution Party" for purposes of CC-BY-SA. In accordance
with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it,
you must provide the URL for the original version. The Michigan Section,
as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees
not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. The ARRL Diamond and logo, the ARES logo and the ARPSC
logo are registered trademarks of the American Radio Relay League in the
United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property
of their respective owners.

Abstract

On May 12, 2012, the Michigan Section will conduct a statewide digital
drill. This document provides an introduction to that drill for
participants.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Introduction

2. Scenario

3. Conduct

A. Operational Specifics

      A.1. Operating Mode

      A.2. Operating Frequency

      A.3. Forms used

B. Revision History


1. Introduction
---------------

On May 12 the section will conduct a statewide digital drill. Unlike
recent exercises, the drill will be aimed at ARES programs with no
planned NTS participation. However, Districts may choose to enlist the
aid of their designated NTS net. This is intended to be a very simple
exercise to test digital capabilities. There should be plenty of time for
each county to conduct local exercises practicing those skills important
to that jurisdiction.


2. Scenario
-----------

Critical infrastructure at scattered locations around the state is
failing for no obvious reason. Individuals in many key positions are
failing to appear at work and have been impossible to contact. There are
rumors of illness but no verification. The Michigan Department of
Community Health has identified two cases of the H5N1 virus in the state,
one in Oceana county and the other in Emmett county. These cases do not
appear to be related. However, these two areas have also been affected by
spotty infrastructure failures. Reported Incidents Michigan map showing
report locations

Figure 1. Reported Incidents


Because there seems to be no apparent pattern to the problems across the
state, there is some suspicion that this is somehow related to a hostile
action, but it is important to note that this is only a suspicion. To
ensure the availability of auxiliary communications resources, the
Section Emergency Coordinator is attempting to identify all available
resources across the state, and obtain contact information for these
resources that does not rely on commercial infrastructure. Because it is
unknown whether some hostile action is involved, all transmissions should
contain only required information with no explanations. Information
transmitted should contain minimum information which may be of use to an
adversary.


3. Conduct
----------

At approximately 0800 local on May 12, the State Emergency Operations
Center will send a query requesting specific details of resources to each
District. The District is expected to pass this query along to each
county for their response. The individual counties may respond directly
to the SEOC, or may instead pass the response to the DEC or his delegate
to relay to the SEOC. Message Flow flow of traffic

Figure 2. Message Flow


The SEOC will operate MT-63/1K at 3.584 MHz center frequency. Should the
F2 critical frequency exceed 9 MHz or the D layer absorption exceed 6dB
at 3.5 MHz, the SEOC will move to 7.036 MHz center frequency. All traffic
to and from the SEOC will be in MT-63/1K, flmsg wrapped. All traffic will
use the appropriate ICS forms. In addition to the original query, the
SEOC may learn more as the situation evolves, and will notify the
Districts via the same method. Districts should continue to monitor the
SEOC frequency during the exercise. Individual counties are encouraged to
include local activities designed to exercise specific skills needed for
that county. It is possible that some counties may experience injects
which do not come directly from the SEOC. The exercise will complete at
1200 local. Individual jurisdictions may, of course, choose to continue
activities past that time.


A. Operational Specifics
------------------------


A.1. Operating Mode

  *  MT-63

  *  1K Wide

  *  64 bit (long) interleave


A.2. Operating Frequency

  *  Dial frequency: 3583 kHz

  *  Radio Mode: Upper sideband

  *  Center Frequency: 3584 kHz (+/- QRM)

  *  Alternate Center Frequency: 7036 kHz

Important settings fldigi

Figure A.1. Important settings


A.3. Forms used

  *  ICS-205a

  *  ICS-213

  *  Others as needed

Example 205a fldigi

Figure A.2. Example 205a


B. Revision History
-------------------

Revision History

Revision 1.0

Wed Apr 25 2012

John McDonough

Remove draft status

Distribute

Revision 0.2

Wed Apr 25 2012

John McDonough

Minor typographical corrections

Revision 0.1

Tue Apr 24 2012

John McDonough

First draft

Revision 0.0

Mon Apr 23 2012

John McDonough

Initial creation of book by publican
