Product SiteDocumentation Site

RACES



Position Manual
===============


RACES SEOC Representitive Duties
--------------------------------


[IMAGE]


Michigan Section ARRL

wb8rcr@arrl.net



Legal Notice
============

CopyrightÂ© 2010, The Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by the
Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League under a Creative
Commons Attribution--Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An
explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/. The original authors of
this document designate the Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay
League as the "Attribution Party" for purposes of CC-BY-SA. In accordance
with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it,
you must provide the URL for the original version. The Michigan Section,
as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees
not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. The ARRL Diamond and logo, the ARES logo and the ARPSC
logo are registered trademarks of the American Radio Relay League in the
United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property
of their respective owners.

Abstract

When the State Emergency Operations Center is activated, a RACES
representative sits in the State EOC. This document outlines the duties
of that representative. In addition, useful reference material is
provided.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. General Responsibilities

      1.1. Team Objectives

      1.2. Resource Needs

2. Specific Duties

      2.1. Checking In

      2.2. Liaison with the station

      2.3. Agency Announcements

      2.4. Debrief

3. E-Team

      3.1. Introduction

      3.2. Logging On

      3.3. Initial Duties

      3.4. Repetitive Duties

A. SEOC Contacts

      A.1. Collins Road

      A.2. Leadership Cell Phones

      A.3. MSP Contacts

B. District Map

C. District Emergency Coordinators

D. EC Contact Information

      D.1. District One

      D.2. District Two

      D.3. District Three

      D.4. District Five

      D.5. District Six

      D.6. District Seven

      D.7. District Eight

E. Revision History


1.Â General Responsibilities
----------------------------


1.1.Â Team Objectives

ARES/RACES is present at the SEOC to provide backup communications
between the area of an incident or emergency and the various state
agencies. The "agency coordinator" (SEC or alternate) sits in on the EOC
proceedings and stays alert to communications needs of the other
agencies. The station staff operates the radio station at the direction
of the coordinator, but, depending on the incident status, may need to
provide status information and/or direction to the coordinator. Because
emergencies are by nature unpredictable, the specific actions taken by
all team members must necessarily react to the incident. Leadership and
creativity are required at all levels, and each participant must be
willing to help the others as the need arises. In order to meet the
communications needs of the incident, resources are required at the SEOC
station as well as in the field. The station manager is responsible for
recruiting operators for the SEOC station and marshalling those operators
as needed. The Emergency Coordinator in the affected area is primarily
responsible for local resources. However, should the capabilities of the
local county be exceeded, the SEC or alternate must marshall additional
resources, typically by contacting the DEC of the affected area, adjacent
DECs or in some cases, nearby ECs directly.


1.2.Â Resource Needs

The SEC or alternate is the top ranking ARES official for the incident.
As a consequence, it falls to him to ensure that the event is adequately
staffed. Depending on the needs of the particular incident, this will
require contacting other individuals around the state, and perhaps
applying some persuasion to achieve the desired result. Most commonly,
the SEC will contact the DEC for the area affected by the incident. The
DEC is aware of the resources of the affected county and the surrounding
counties. If the EC can be reached, he is typically the most able to
respond quickly. However, when an incident is underway, the EC can often
be difficult to reach. At times the local DEC is unreachable or has
exhausted all resources. The SEC must then exploit the resources of other
Districts. Nearby Districts are obviously preferred due to travel times,
but any District may have the needed resources and must be considered.


2.Â Specific Duties
-------------------


2.1.Â Checking In

On arrival, sign in at the front door. The door to the downstairs
stairway will be locked. If the rep or alternate does not have a pass
card, an officer will escort him to the security station. The rep must
pick up a badge at the security station outside the EOC room. Because of
ovecrowding at the SEOC, RACES often does not have a designated position.
Select a position that is available.


2.2.Â Liaison with the station

The rep's primary function is to provide a communications path between
the station status and the various agencies.

  *  Apprise the various agencies of the current station status if needed

  *  Communicate the current status of the field situation, as understood
    by the SEOC, to the station.

  *  Alert the station of any communications needs of the agencies.

If possible, spend some time with the operators prior to the exercise to
understand the situation there. Ideally, the rep will have an HT and will
agree with the station on an available frequency. Note that the station's
VHF radio will likely be in use, so communication between the rep and the
station will probably be HT to HT. If HTs are not available or do not
work, the telephone may be used. Keep in mind, however, that the SEOC rep
will likely not have the same number as in previous drills. Be sure the
station has the number. Stay in regular touch with the station; be aware
of their situation and whether they are in contact with the site. Keep
them up to date as to site changes as announced in the SEOC.


2.3.Â Agency Announcements

Periodically, the IC or Ops Section Chief will ask for agency updates.
Give a brief status of the station for each update. Keep in mind that the
agency reps are non-technical, but most realize that we are their backup
plan. Give a meaningful status without getting technical. Pay at least
passing attention to the other agency reports. Should they need us our
job will be eased if we at least have some familiarity with their
situation. Consider updating the station with any interesting items from
the other agencies. Depending on the drill and players, there may be EOCs
on the converse bridge unaware of the situation at the site and in need
of update.


2.4.Â Debrief

At the end of the exercise, there will be a debrief from all agencies.
Prior to this check with the station operators to be sure you are aware
of any contact with the site or nearby jurisdictions. Make a positive,
brief presentation when asked. As usual, avoid technical details and
focus on capability.


3.Â E-Team
----------


3.1.Â Introduction

As a general rule, the station staff maintains the RACES Situation Report
(SitRep) since the SEC frequently does not have a terminal. However, if
for some reason the station staff is unable to maintain the SitRep, it
falls on the SEC or his delegate to do so. It is important to many
agencies to be alert to the state of readiness of the RACES station.
Agencies have discovered that their communications circuits are sometimes
fragile, and they may require our services. An up to date and accurate
SitRep gives them some confidence about our status. In any case, be sure
the Agency SitRep is complete, accurate, and up to date.


3.2.Â Logging On

  *  Log on to E-Team using the password provided by the DIT rep
    (typically Rich Law or Jacqueline Barcroft). They will usually log
    you on.


    Use SEOC-specific password
    --------------------------

    Â  Do not use your personal password when logging on at the SEOC.


3.3.Â Initial Duties

  *  Review the incident report

  *  Add an Agency SitRep


3.4.Â Repetitive Duties

  *  Update the agency sitrep approximately hourly (generally the station
    operators manage this).

  *  Add Duty Log entries if needed

  *  Review the incident report and other agency SitReps


A.Â SEOC Contacts
-----------------


A.1.Â Collins Road

  *  HF/VHF Phone Position - 517-336-3984

  *  CW Position - 517-324-2381


A.2.Â Leadership Cell Phones

  *  SEC WB8RCR - 989-430-4855

  *  ASEC N8ERF - 989-948-5427

  *  SM - WA8EFK - 313-920-2785


A.3.Â MSP Contacts

The following are key Michigan State Police contacts. If these
individuals are on duty, they will typically be in the SEOC:

Operations Section Chief - Jim Porcello

Director EMHSD - Capt. Thomas Sands

Assistant Director EMHSD - Tony Katarski

Logistics Section Chief - Tom Newell

Incident Commander - F/Lt. Ralph Hobrat

E-Team contact - Jaclyn Barcroft

I/T assistance - Rich Law

MSP Training Director - Dan Sibo

Operations Director - Lt. Bonnie Kanicki-Wilson

REP training contact - Sgt. Mardella Hohrn


B.Â District Map
----------------

District Map District Map

FigureÂ B.1.Â District Map


C.Â District Emergency Coordinators
-----------------------------------

District

Call

Name

Phone

1

K8YZA

Joe Pullen

517-263-2181

2

K8UP

John Fleming

248-542-9573

3

N8OSL

Joe Tuscher

810-908-3089

5

KB8FQJ

Carl Flickinger

269-873-7891

6

KB8VEE

Tom van der Mel

231-206-0422

7

WA8RLI

Red Duggan

586-413-2831

8

KG8NK

Lou Gembolis

906-485-5442

APX

KC8YTK

Chris Stinson

989-430-2375

DTX

N8ZSA

Ted Davis

248-842-4077

GRR

N8VLN

Michael Gage

616-538-0502

MQT

KI8AF

Greg Hanson

906-225-1594

TableÂ C.1.Â District Emergency Coordinators


D.Â EC Contact Information
--------------------------


D.1.Â District One

District One District One Map

FigureÂ D.1.Â District One


County

EC

Contact

Clinton

David Oulette, WB8MWG

  *  Â 

Eaton

Jeff Frank, N8HEE

  *  Day Phone: 5175438200

  *  Night Phone: 5175432643

  *  Cell Phone: 5176673015

  *  eMail: n8hee@n8hee.com

  *  ampr.org address: n8hee@hamgate.eaton.ampr.org

  *  repeater: 443.625 (100)

Gratiot

Bill Rogers, KC8OUF

  *  Night Phone: 9896815349

  *  eMail: kc8ouf@mail.com

Hillsdale

Daniel Sprow, KC8RYF

  *  Day Phone: 5174373677

  *  Night Phone: 5174371410

  *  eMail: dsprow@comcast.net

Ingham/ Lansing

Thomas Shaver, KC8NJK

  *  Night Phone: 5176481550

  *  eMail: tom@cema.biz

Jackson

Tim Bair, WD8PMD

  *  Â 

Lenawee

Joseph Pullen, K8YZA

  *  Day Phone: 5175476794

  *  Night Phone: 5172632181

  *  Cell Phone: 5172601185

  *  eMail: jpullen007@comcast.net

Livingston

Bruce Pollock, N8WWX

  *  Day Phone: 5175407681

  *  Night Phone: 7348780138

  *  eMail: n8wwx_bruce@hotmail.com

Shiawassee

Thomas Carpenter, KI8AS

  *  Night Phone: 5175790599

  *  eMail: ki8as@charter.net

TableÂ D.1.Â District One - Joseph Pullen, K8YZA


D.2.Â District Two

District Two District Two Map

FigureÂ D.2.Â District Two


County

EC

Contact

Macomb

Paul Reinhardt, KC8BDK

  *  Day Phone: 5867381861

Monroe

Jerry Stone, WB7RUM

  *  eMail: jerrys8410@verizon.net

Oakland

Larry A. Hornsby, Sr., KB8POD

  *  Day Phone: 2488860855

  *  Cell Phone: 2484212617

  *  eMail: kb8pod@aol.com

Saint Clair

(vacant)

Â 

Washtenaw

Doug Cox, N8ZLR

  *  Day Phone: 7349364387

  *  Night Phone: 7346650625

  *  eMail: doug@dougcox.com

Wayne

Shanon Herron, KA8SPW

  *  Night Phone: 7344219221

  *  Cell Phone: 7342776724

  *  eMail: ka8spw@sbcglobal.net

TableÂ D.2.Â District Two - John Fleming, K8UP


D.3.Â District Three

District Three District Three Map

FigureÂ D.3.Â District Three


County

EC

Contact

Alcona

Stanley Darmofal, W8SZ

  *  Day Phone: 9063780270

  *  Night Phone: 9063873898

  *  eMail: w8sz@arrl.net

Arenac

Lester Eichman, KD8ERK

  *  Cell Phone: 4899424098

  *  eMail: eichman@yahoo.com

Bay

Harold Beauchamp, KC8QMH

  *  Day Phone: 9899921890

  *  eMail: kc8qmh@arrl.net

Genesee

James E. Bowers, KD8IRG

  *  Â 

Gladwin

Bruce Wagner, N8LYL

  *  Night Phone: 9895392950

  *  eMail: tinarrow@toast.net

Huron

(vacant)

Â 

Iosco

Kelly Karpp, KB8RWG

  *  Day Phone: 5177392911

  *  Night Phone: 9897352091

  *  eMail: kb8rwg@netzero.net

  *  ampr.org address: kb8rwg@ioseoc.ampr.org

Lapeer

Tom Oliver, KD8EBY

  *  Night Phone: 8104072461

Midland

John C. Wolters, W8QN

  *  Day Phone: 9896361920

  *  Night Phone: 9898329122

  *  eMail: wb5pbl@aol.com

Ogemaw

Lester Eichman, KD8ERK

  *  Cell Phone: 4899424098

  *  eMail: eichman@yahoo.com

Oscoda

John Shearer, KC8CMQ

  *  Day Phone: 9897867227

Saginaw

Ron Huss, KC8YVF

  *  Day Phone: 9897992679

  *  eMail: kc8yvf@rhuss.cncfamily.com

Sanilac

Theodore Davis, KF8ZO

  *  Day Phone: 8106729504

  *  Night Phone: 8106729504

Tuscola

Roger Edwards, WB8WJV

  *  Day Phone: 9896735722

TableÂ D.3.Â District Three - Joe Tuscher, N8OSL


D.4.Â District Five

District Five District Five Map

FigureÂ D.4.Â District Five


County

EC

Contact

Allegan

Jim Cance, AB8SF

  *  Day Phone: 2696851189

  *  Night Phone: 2696851189

  *  eMail: jimandkarencance@att.net

Barry

(vacant)

Â 

Berrien

Thomas Dumminger, KC8MGD

  *  Day Phone: 2699236999

  *  Night Phone: 2695560570

  *  Cell Phone: 2698769619

  *  eMail: tommyd578@sbcglobal.net

Branch

Larry Camp, WB8R

  *  Night Phone: 5172780406

  *  Cell Phone: 5176174883

  *  eMail: wb8r@arrl.net

Calhoun

Dave Smith, KC8COT

  *  Day Phone: 6169685006

  *  eMail: kc8cotham@aol.com

Cass

(vacant)

Â 

Kalamazoo

Art Snapper, NK8X

  *  Day Phone: 2694918874

  *  Day Phone: 6163723300

  *  Night Phone: 2693723906

  *  Night Phone: 6163818871

  *  eMail: art@nk8x.net

Saint Joseph

Bill Douglas, AE8K

  *  eMail: ae8k@arrl.net

Van Buren

Paul Reissmann, WD8MWT

  *  Night Phone: 2696216138

  *  Cell Phone: 2158177594

  *  eMail: wd8mwt@comcast.net

  *  repeater: 444.800+ 94.8 PL

TableÂ D.4.Â District Five - Carl Flickinger, KB8FQJ


D.5.Â District Six

District Six District Six Map

FigureÂ D.5.Â District Six


County

EC

Contact

Clare

Richard J. Johnson, KA8DCJ

  *  Day Phone: 9895397463

  *  Day Phone: 9892204623

  *  Cell Phone: 9894807342

  *  eMail: ka8dcj@gmail.com

Ionia

Roger Packard, KD8KLI

  *  Night Phone: 6165276410

  *  Cell Phone: 6165402794

  *  eMail: rpackard@hughes.net

Isabella

Gustave Glass, K8GUS

  *  Day Phone: 9893390851

  *  Night Phone: 9895883220

Kent

Jeffrey Nawrot, N8JSN

  *  Day Phone: 6162911869

  *  Night Phone: 6162911869

  *  eMail: jnawrot@kcvrm.net

Lake

(vacant)

Â 

Mason

Gary Berk, KC8MWF

  *  Day Phone: 2318454219

  *  Night Phone: 2318432945

  *  eMail: kc8mwf@charter.net

Mecosta

Steve Cowan, KD8DHZ

  *  Day Phone: 9893829452

  *  eMail: doorman444@gmail.com

Montcalm

Paul Odem, KC8ZMO

  *  Day Phone: 9896204605

  *  Night Phone: 9893040340

  *  eMail: rockyroster@yahoo.com

Muskegon

James Duram, K8COP

  *  Day Phone: 2318286306

  *  eMail: jimk8cop@afo.net

  *  eMail: k8cop@arrl.net

Newaygo

Tim Deater, KC8MSE

  *  Day Phone: 2319248806

  *  Night Phone: 2318541694

  *  eMail: kc8mse@gmail.com

Oceana

David Robertson, N8UKH

  *  Day Phone: 2317981736

  *  Night Phone: 2318541065

  *  Pager: 2313150218

  *  Nextel: 2312258569 131*538466*15

Osceola

Bill Kelso, N8NJA

  *  Â 

Ottawa

Jim Miller, W8JRM

  *  Day Phone: 6164027891

  *  eMail: jrmiller@gmail.com

TableÂ D.5.Â District Six - Tom VanderMel, KB8VEE


D.6.Â District Seven

District Seven District Seven Map

FigureÂ D.6.Â District Seven


County

EC

Contact

Alpena

John Thomas, N8JWH

  *  Day Phone: 9898840292

  *  Cell Phone: 9894644798

  *  eMail: n8jwh@arrl.net

Antrim

Mike Cleary, W8VPC

  *  Day Phone: 2135448181

  *  eMail: xp1@torchlake.com

Benzie

Tom Schoonover, K8BTE

  *  Day Phone: 2318824249

  *  eMail: schooner@charter.net

Charlevoix

(vacant)

Â 

Cheboygan

Charles J. Brew, N8NXP

  *  Night Phone: 2314365570

  *  Cell Phone: 2314996478

  *  eMail: brewfire@upnorth.net

Crawford

Thomas 'Red' Duggan, WA8RLI

  *  Day Phone: 8107772443

  *  Day Phone: 9892752443

  *  Night Phone: 9892533247

  *  Cell Phone: 5864132831

  *  eMail: wa8rli@arrl.net

Emmet

Charles P. Scott, N8DNX

  *  Day Phone: 2314870692

  *  Night Phone: 2313479941

  *  Cell Phone: 2313304517

  *  eMail: cscott@gaslightmedia.com

  *  Pager: 2313304517@message.alltel.com

Grand Traverse

(vacant)

Â 

Kalkaska

(vacant)

Â 

Leelanau

Gerald Gorrell, W8WFN

  *  Day Phone: 6163343793

  *  eMail: w8wfn@aol.com

Manistee

(vacant)

Â 

Missaukee

(vacant)

Â 

Montmorency

George Brand, WA8SCO

  *  Night Phone: 9893448607

  *  Night Phone: 9893449762

  *  Cell Phone: 9893701395

  *  eMail: georgeb@i2k.com

Otsego

Richard Nelson, WB8AKH

  *  Day Phone: 9899398020

Presque Isle

Michael Horn, WB8TQZ

  *  Day Phone: 9897344170

  *  Night Phone: 9897344956

  *  eMail: wb8tqz@arrl.net

Roscommon

(vacant)

Â 

Wexford

Thomas Warnock, WB8WIV

  *  Â 

TableÂ D.6.Â District Seven - Thomas 'Red' Duggan, WA8RLI


D.7.Â District Eight

District Eight District Eight Map

FigureÂ D.7.Â District Eight


County

EC

Contact

Alger

Raoul Revard, W8RDR

  *  Day Phone: 9063871655

  *  Night Phone: 9063871655

  *  eMail: rrevord@jamadots.com

Baraga

Randall F. Bell, K8HRO

  *  eMail: rfb@up.net

Chippewa

(vacant)

Â 

Delta

Mark Seymour, N8XAH

  *  Day Phone: 9067865911

  *  Night Phone: 9062802062

Dickinson

Dennis Beurjey, KC8SWX

  *  Â 

Gogebic

Andrew Tate, KD8EBO

  *  Â 

Houghton

John Swift, N8WAV

  *  Day Phone: 9064820530

  *  Night Phone: 9064827766

  *  eMail: jswift@up.net

Iron

James Rye, W8IFI

  *  Night Phone: 9068753582

  *  eMail: jimrye@up.net

Keweenaw

Gary Hansen, K8YSZ

  *  Day Phone: 9063371436

Luce

David Dake, KC8QZG

  *  eMail: daved@forestinsurancecenter.com

Mackinac

Ron Peterka, WA8OOH

  *  Night Phone: 9066437133

  *  eMail: wa8ooh@lighthouse.net

Marquette

Richard Schwenke, N8GBA

  *  Day Phone: 9062493837

  *  Night Phone: 9062493837

  *  eMail: n8gba@chartermi.net

Menominee

Paul Sorensen, NS8V

  *  Night Phone: 9068642551

  *  eMail: royalfeathers@earthlink.net

Ontonagon

Alfred Trainer, KC8OCK

  *  Â 

Schoolcraft

Howard A Baker, KD8DBF

  *  Night Phone: 9064942557

TableÂ D.7.Â District Eight - Lou Gembolis, KG8NK


E.Â Revision History
--------------------

Revision History

Revision 6

Mon Jun 07 2010

John McDonough

Update phone numbers

Revision 5

Fri May 14 2010

John McDonough

Update Newaygo

Update Clare

Revision 4

Mon Mar 01 2010

John McDonough

Additional phone numbers

Rescale District 8 map

Correct typos

Remove draft status

Revision 3

Mon Feb 22 2010

John McDonough

Tweak some images for PDF

Change format of Appendix D to allow for less wasted space

Improve/correct E-Team chapter

Revision 2

Fri Feb 19 2010

John McDonough

Still more expanding of duties

Tables of EC contact information

District map

Move reference materials to appendix

Revision 1

Wed Feb 17 2010

John McDonough

Additional details on duties

DEC Contact Information

Revision 0

Wed Jan 27 2010

John McDonough

Initial creation of book by publican
