Product SiteDocumentation Site

2011 Simulated Emergency Test



SET2011-After Action Report
===========================


functional drill
----------------


[IMAGE]


For a list of contributors refer to Appendix G. Â 



Legal Notice
============

CopyrightÂ© 2011, Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League
This document is released FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY. In accordance with
Department of Homeland Security recommendations, after-action reports
should only be shared with those who have a need to use the information
to improve the ability of the Michgan Section to respond to incidents.
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by the
Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League under a Creative
Commons Attribution--Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An
explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/. The original authors of
this document designate the Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay
League as the "Attribution Party" for purposes of CC-BY-SA. In accordance
with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it,
you must provide the URL for the original version. The Michigan Section,
as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees
not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. The ARRL Diamond and logo, the ARES logo and the ARPSC
logo are registered trademarks of the American Radio Relay League in the
United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property
of their respective owners.

Abstract

On October 1, 2011 Michigan Section held a functional drill using the
scenario of a winter storm. This document details the result of that
functional drill.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Executive Summary

      1.1. Major Strengths

      1.2. Primary areas for improvement

2. Executive Overview

      2.1. Exercise Details

      2.2. Exercise Planning team

      2.3. Participating organizations

3. Exercise Design

      3.1. Exercise Purpose and Design

      3.2. Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities

      3.3. Scenario Summary

4. Analysis of Capabilities

      4.1. Capability 1 - Procedures

      4.2. Capability 2 - Standards

5. Conclusion

A. Improvement Plan

B. Participant Feedback

      B.1. General Participant Feedback

      B.2. General Comments from Evaluators

C. Exercise Evaluation Guide

      C.1. Mission

            C.1.1. Target Capability - Planning

            C.1.2. Target Capability - Communications

D. Exercise Events Summary Table

E. Master Scenario Event List

F. NTS to District Assignments

G. List of Contributors

H. Acronyms

I. Revision History

Index


1.Â Executive Summary
---------------------

Each year on the first Saturday in October, the ARRL holds a "Simulated
Emergency Test". The Michigan Section has long used this as an annual
exercise to help develop various skills needed for emergency response.
The Michigan Section winter storm functional drill exercise 2011
Simulated Emergency Test was developed to test Michigan Section's
ComA2.4.3.1 (Procedures and plans) and ComC1.2.2 (Interoperable comms)
capabilities. The exercise planning team was composed of SEC staff. The
exercise planning team discussed the ARES/NTS interface, message
handling, congestion at the SEOC during a statewide incident, and
response to infrastructure failures. Based on the exercise planning
team's deliberations, the following objectives were developed for 2011
Simulated Emergency Test:

  *  Objective 1: Improve the relationship between ARES and NTS by
    assigning permanent NTS Net to ARES District relationships.

  *  Objective 2: Introduce ARES to the standard NTS practice of having
    liaisons carry traffic to and from a net.

  *  Objective 3: Stress message passing by introducing constraints to
    simulate widespread infrastructure outages, such as loss of power and
    antennas.

The purpose of this report is to analyze exercise results, identify
strengths to be maintained and built upon, identify potential areas for
further improvement, and support development of corrective actions.


1.1.Â Major Strengths

The major strengths identified during this exercise are as follows:

  *  District Emergency Coordinators and Net Managers worked efectively
    prior to the exercise to have plans in place.

  *  Jurisdictions responded effectively to unanticipated loss of
    infrastructure.

  *  Traffic handling skills improved across the board.


1.2.Â Primary areas for improvement

Throughout the exercise, several opportunities for improvement in the
Section's ability to respond to the incident were identified. The primary
areas for improvement, including recommendations, are as follows:

  *  Net procedures still presented some areas of confusion. Additional
    practice is indicated.

  *  Not all jurisdictions had plans for relieving operators in key
    positions. The need for written plans, including plans for dealing
    with multiple operational periods, must be stressed with the
    counties.

  *  While procedures and net discipline showed considerable improvement,
    there were still a number of areas where inexperience delayed
    traffic. Once again, additional training and practice is indicated.

  *  Many participants, especially nets, were reluctant to leave their
    comfort zones. In particular, nets seemed to have difficulty leaving
    their favored frequencies, modes and practices, even when other
    approaches would obviously have been more effective.

  *  While Section staff made significant efforts to make ARPSC members
    aware of the exercise, non-participants were for the most part
    unaware, even if they might be affected. Broader dissemination of
    plans is needed.


2.Â Executive Overview
----------------------

This exercise aimed to strengthen the relationship between the Amateur
Radio Emergency Services (ARES) and the National Traffic System (NTS).
The station at the State Emergency Operations Center (SEOC) delivered
injects to liaisons to the various NTS nets who, in turn, delivered those
injects to the Districts. Each District was assigned an NTS net, with the
expectation that this assignment would be more or less permanent. ARES
District Emergency Coordinators were encouraged to work together with NTS
Net Managers to plan meeting times, frequencies, etc. The Great Lakes
Emergency and traffic Net was assigned the responsibility of representing
the four National Weather Service offices in Michigan. Evaluators
monitored the activity looking for evidence of planning, ability to
maintain communications across the state, and ability to respond to loss
of infrastructure. As this exercise was conducted in conjunction with the
annual ARRL Simulated Emergency Test, individual jurisdictions were
encouraged to include local government agencies and NGOs in their local
activities.


2.1.Â Exercise Details

  * Exercise Name - 2011 ARRL Simulated Emergency Test

  * Type of exercise - The Section-wide portion of the exercise was a
    functional drill, testing limited capabilities within the section.
    However, many jurisdictions, in keeping with the spirit of the ARRL
    test, engaged numerous other agencies on a local level.

  * Exercise Date and Duration - October 1, 2011 - 4 hours

  * Location - Statewide

  * Sponsor - Michigan Section of The American Radio Relay League

  * Program - n/a

  * Mission - Respond

  * Scenario Type - Winter Storm

2.1.1.Â Capabilities

  *  ComA2.4.3.1 - Develop Standard Operating Procedures and Standard
    Operating Guides in support of Emergency Operations Plans.

      *  Continuity of Operation (COOP) plans describe how personnel,
        equipment, and other resources support sustained
        response/survivability and recovery for all sectors

      *  Emergency response plans address substantial loss of public
        safety response capabilities during catastrophic events (to
        include special needs populations and people with disabilities)

  *  ComC1.2.2 - Develop common communication and data standards to
    facilitate the exchange of information in support of response
    management

      *  Develop common communication and data standards to facilitate
        the exchange of information in support of response management

      *  Redundant and diverse interoperable communication systems are
        available


2.2.Â Exercise Planning team

The Section Emergency Coordinator (who also serves as the Section Traffic
Manager) and the Section's Training and Exercise Officer planned the
exercise. District Emergency Coordinators and Net Managers provided input
on who was intending to participate, their capabilities, etc.


2.3.Â Participating organizations

The Statewide portion of the exercise included the National Traffic
System nets and the Amateur Radio Emergency Services. Because their
capabilities did not map any of the needs for the exercise, the Thumb and
Mid-Michigan Traffic Net was not asked to participate. Several individual
counties also chose not to participate. The National Weather Service
office at White Lake provided the initial injects, as well as simulations
based on historical events to add realism to the scenario. At the local
level, counties were encouraged to include served agencies. In various
jurisdictions, participants included the American Red Cross, Salvation
Army, local Health Departments, hospitals, and a large number of
Townships. Most counties used the station at their county Emergency
Operations Center as the main point of contact. Several jurisdictions
also operated from hospitals, township halls and fire barns, as well as
Red Cross chapters.

2.3.1.Â Number of participants

  *  Players - approx 200

  *  Controllers - 1

  *  Evaluators - 5

  *  Facilitators - none

  *  Observers - not available

  *  Victim role players - not applicable


3.Â Exercise Design
-------------------


3.1.Â Exercise Purpose and Design

Each year the Michigan Section uses the annual ARRL Simulated Emergency
Test to conduct a statewide exercise to improve the ability of the
Section to respond to emergencies and other incidents, and to interact
with various State and local agencies, as well as NGOs. Over the past few
years the Section has been working on improving the interface between the
National traffic System and ARES. This year the Section hoped to
establish some more or less permanent relationships between the ARES
Districts and the NTS nets. Each District was assigned a net, and an
additional net was assigned the responsibility of working with the
National Weather Service. (refer to AppendixÂ F, NTS to District
Assignments for details.) The Thumb and Mid Michigan Traffic Net was not
assigned a District as there were no obvious candidates and the net has a
relatively small footprint. The Northern Lower Eastern Upper Peninsula
Net was also not assigned as that net has no current leadership. The
exercise was designed to exercise these new relationships, and also test
the ability of the nets and local programs to respond to challenging
conditions such as loss of repeater power, loss of antennas, etc. As with
most Statewide ARES/NTS exercises, it was a particular challenge to
design a scenario where all participating counties and nets could send
and receive relevant traffic. The Training and Exercise Officer polled
all Districts to see which would participate, and only three responded in
the affirmative. At least a few counties from every District did
participate, so some counties received only generic traffic.


3.2.Â Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities

Capabilities-based planning allows for exercise planning teams to develop
exercise objectives and observe exercise outcomes through a framework of
specific action items that were derived from the Target Capabilities List
(TCL). The capabilities listed below form the foundation for the
organization of all objectives and observations in this exercise.
Additionally, each capability is linked to several corresponding
activities and tasks to provide additional detail. Based upon the
identified exercise objectives below, the exercise planning team has
decided to demonstrate the following capabilities during this exercise:

  *  Objective 1: Districts and Nets plan effectively together

      *  ComA2.4.3.1 - Develop Standard Operating Procedures and Standard
        Operating Guides in support of Emergency Operations Plans

          *  Continuity of Operation (COOP) plans describe how personnel,
            equipment, and other resources support sustained
            response/survivability and recovery for all sectors

          *  Emergency response plans address substantial loss of public
            safety response capabilities during catastrophic events (to
            include special needs populations and people with
            disabilities)

  *  Objective 2: Nets and local jurisdictions are able to operate
    effectively in the face of significant challenges.

      *  ComC1.2.2 - Develop common communication and data standards to
        facilitate the exchange of information in support of response
        management

          *  Operable communications systems that are supported by
            redundancy and diversity, that provide service across
            jurisdictions, and that meet everyday internal agency
            requirements, are in place

          *  Redundant and diverse interoperable communication systems
            are available


3.3.Â Scenario Summary

A severe winter storm scenario was selected as this type of incident can
realistically have widespread and severe consequences. In the early
morning of October 1, the National Weather Service in White Lake issues a
warning of an impending severe winter storm. By the time the SEOC is
activated and warnings sent to the Districts, telephone service is
already affected. As the morning wears on, severe icing and heavy winds
cause damage to power lines and higher profile antennas. Many repeaters
are forced off the air and even some HF antennas suffer damage. Local
jurisdictions are forced to rely on backup repeaters, emergency power
stations, and simplex operation. A short summary of the events may be
found in AppendixÂ D, Exercise Events Summary Table. Injects for the
exercise are delivered to Districts and some individual counties via
radiogram (refer to AppendixÂ E, Master Scenario Event List). The various
NTS nets send liaisons to the SEOC to pick up and deliver traffic between
the SEOC and their assigned Districts and the counties within that
District.


4.Â Analysis of Capabilities
----------------------------

This section of the report reviews the performance of the exercised
capabilities, activities, and tasks. In this section, observations are
organized by capability and associated activities. The capabilities
linked to the exercise objectives of 2011 Simulated Emergency Test are
listed below, followed by corresponding activities. Each activity is
followed by related observations, which include references, analysis, and
recommendations.


4.1.Â Capability 1 - Procedures

ComA2.4.3.1 - Develop Standard Operating Procedures and Standard
Operating Guides in support of Emergency Operations Plans

4.1.1.Â Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery

Continuity of Operation (COOP) plans describe how personnel, equipment,
and other resources support sustained response/survivability and recovery
for all sectors Evaluators were asked to look for:

  *  Are stations using appropriate procedures and protocols

  *  Are net controls and operators being rotated

  *  Is there evidence of a plan to rotate operators

  *  Is there evidence of a plan to provide operators with personal needs
    (food, drink, rest, etc.)

  *  Is there evidence that emergency power/portable operations are
    planned

  *  Are plans in place to provide support personnel (runners, etc.)

4.1.1.1.Â Observation 1.1.1 - Emergency Power

Area for improvement: Programs should have plans to continue to operate
when commercial power fails. Not all evaluators had a chance to review
plans, but some evidence of emergency power use was found. There is,
however, no evidence of explicit plans. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  One station 100% battery w/solar panels charging

Also see SectionÂ 4.1.2.1, âObservation 1.2.1 - Emergency Powerâ.

4.1.1.1.1.Â Analysis

It has become relatively customary for stations to have back up power,
especially in locations that are often used to ARES activities. However,
leaders are not always sensitive to knowing what stations have what
emergency power capabillities.

4.1.1.1.2.Â Recommendations

Remind leaders in both ARES and NTS that they should stay alert to each
station's backup power capabilities.

4.1.1.2.Â Observation 1.1.2 - Experience

Area for Improvement: Although only one evaluator observed this problem,
the shortage of experience is widespread. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  More experienced operators needed both Dist 3 and 5

4.1.1.2.1.Â Analysis

In many areas there is a shortage of experienced operators. Older
operators are often not interested or unable to participate, and newer
operators do not have the training and background desired. Much of the
shortage might be alleviated with training as well as documentation.
Standardization of equipment to the degree possible would also help.
However, the best antidote is to train by doing.

4.1.1.2.2.Â Recommendations

Operators require more frequent, meaningful exercises and training. All
DECs should work with their ECs to develop local programs to build
operator skills.

4.1.1.3.Â Observation 1.1.3 - Personal Needs

Strength: Programs considered personal needs of operators. Individual
evaluator comments:

  *  Food and refreshments on site - rest rooms available a short walk
    away

  *  Branch County operations continued into the afternoon, so some of
    their operators joined up for lunch

4.1.1.3.1.Â Analysis

Generally, programs did well. It would be good if programs included
personal needs in their written operational plans.

4.1.1.3.2.Â Recommendations

No specific action needed at this time.

4.1.1.4.Â Observation 1.1.4 - Procedures

Strength: Although far from perfect, procedures have improved
considerably. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  Standard procedures on all nets heard

  *  BT separating heading of message from text and signature caused
    count confusion when not used

  *  The Allegan County exercise, the Branch Co. Exercise, and the 5th
    district hospital net were well disciplined and proper net procedured
    used

4.1.1.4.1.Â Analysis

Although significantly improved, familiarity with traffic procedures
still falls a little short. Programs more and more often incoroporate
some sort of traffic training into their programs; this should continue.
NTS operators should be reminded that sometimes ARES operators don't have
the practice they need, and NTS ops should be forgiving of these
shortcomings, while striving to mentor operators towards improved
procedures.

4.1.1.4.2.Â Recommendations

Programs should continue to include traffic handling training and pass
occasional messages on their nets. Net Managers should remind members
that ARES operators don't always have the practice we might prefer, and
NTS operators should take a mentoring approach towards ARES ops.

4.1.1.5.Â Observation 1.1.5 - Rotation

Area for improvement:Programs rotated operators and net controls,
however, there was no evidence found of formal plans. Individual
evaluator comments:

  *  Operator rotation established

  *  Rotation: Yes KB8RCR and NK8X

  *  No evidence of plan to rotate operators

  *  The nets had assistant/alternate net controls

4.1.1.5.1.Â Analysis

Although some programs rotate operators, there is no evidence anywhere of
a formal plan.

4.1.1.5.2.Â Recommendations

All programs should include plans for rotating operators in their written
operational procedures.

4.1.1.6.Â Observation 1.1.6 - Support

Area for improvement: Plans to have adequate supporting personnel
available were spotty at best. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  No one planned portable operations; no support personnel, although
    some locations had multiple operators

  *  Boy scout troop on site if runners needed

4.1.1.6.1.Â Analysis

As in rotation plans, plans to have support personnel available were
spotty, at best.

4.1.1.6.2.Â Recommendations

Incorporate plans for support personnel into written operational plans.

4.1.2.Â Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability

Emergency response plans address substantial loss of public safety
response capabilities during catastrophic events (to include special
needs populations and people with disabilities) Evaluators were asked to
look for:

  *  Are stations using emergency power

  *  Are stations operating from field/temporary locations

  *  Are operations reliant on permanent infrastructure

4.1.2.1.Â Observation 1.2.1 - Emergency Power

Strength: Almost all jurisdictions operated their key stations from a
location having emergency power capabilities. Individual evaluator
comments:

  *  Strength: Stations using emergency power

  *  Kent County Red Cross not on emergency power but had capability

  *  A few hams on the local nets indicated they were on emergency power,
    but the ECs and Net Controls were not making it a priority to declare
    that a station is or is not on E.P.

4.1.2.1.1.Â Analysis and Recommendations

Refer to 1.1.1 Emergency Power.

4.1.2.2.Â Observation 1.2.2 - Infrastructure

Strength Programs consider robustness of available infrastructure when
choosing command sites. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  No stations known reliant on permanent infrastructure

  *  Operations relied on permanent infrastructure, but good
    infrastructure, at various locations like EOCs, medical facilities
    and Red Cross. With these sites of permanent antennas and towers and
    shelters, you also get emergency backup generators. Other ham
    operations were mainly home stations. No portable and a few mobile
    stations.

4.1.2.2.1.Â Analysis

Generally good response given the typical need. At some point in the
future written plans for selecting/avoiding operational sites may be
helpful.

4.1.2.2.2.Â Recommendations

No action required at the current time.

4.1.2.3.Â Observation 1.2.3 - Temporary Operation

Strength: Although no suggestion was made that temporary operations was
desirable, many programs operated from served agencies and a number
selected field operations. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  All stations heard operating from the field. CED 7 in unheated
    outbuilding, Alpena in camping trailer

  *  Stations operating from Red Cross

  *  No field/temporary locations heard. Most stations at facilities with
    emergency power capabilities like EOCs, medical facilities, and Red
    Cross

4.1.2.3.1.Â Analysis

Again, given the typical need, a good response.

4.1.2.3.2.Â Recommendations

No action required at the current time


4.2.Â Capability 2 - Standards

ComC1.2.2 - Develop common communication and data standards to facilitate
the exchange of information in support of response management

4.2.1.Â Preparedness Measure 2.1 - Cross-jurisdiction

Operable communications systems that are supported by redundancy and
diversity, that provide service across jurisdictions, and that meet
everyday internal agency requirements, are in place Evaluators were asked
to look for:

  *  Is there consistency across the procedures used by the various
    jurisdictions

  *  Is there evidence of interface with government or non-government
    responders

  *  Is there evidence of any plan to use different modes and/or
    frequencies when conditions warrant

4.2.1.1.Â Observation 2.1.1 - Consistency

Strength: Programs used consistent procedures. Individual evaluator
comments:

  *  Procedures seem much more coordinated than in the past

  *  Consistency, yes. Amateur to amateur

4.2.1.1.1.Â Analysis

Generally consistent procedures across the section.

4.2.1.1.2.Â Recommendations

No action required at the current time.

4.2.1.2.Â Observation 2.1.2 - Flexibility

Mixed: Most programs were able to incorporate multiple modes and
frequencies, however some operators were confused when unexpected changes
occurred, and even when there were plans to respond to changing
conditions, plans were not always followed. However, flexible responses
were chosen. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  All stations heard were multi mode multi freq

  *  Worked real well, however, shutting down repeaters switching seems
    to confuse or frustrate operators

  *  Plan in place to QSY in response to propagation. However, HF did not
    switch when propagation deteriorated

  *  Conditions deteriorated and a new net control operator took over on
    the same frequency

  *  Branch county and the 5th District hospital nets were
    multi-frequency (repeater and simplex) and multimode (FM, D-Star,
    Packet). Unknown about Allegan county and Calhoun county operations,
    likely FM only on two meters. Some 440 used by Branch county.

4.2.1.2.1.Â Analysis

In general, local programs responded well to disruptions in their
operation, although some operators were confused when repeaters
disappeared. Stations did not respond as well to changing propagation.

4.2.1.2.2.Â Recommendations

Local programs need to incorporate unexpected loss of repeaters into
their local exercises more frequently. Training on propagation is needed.
In addition, both NTS nets and ARES programs require more familiarity
with the behavior of the HF bands as conditions change.

4.2.1.3.Â Observation 2.1.3 - Served Agencies

Strength: Since the exercise was run on a weekend, few served agencies
participated directly, however most programs operated from sites owned by
their served agencies. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  N8JWH/AAM6MI interfaced w/Army MARS monitoring 3 Army freqs and
    three amateur freqs from Alpena

  *  Yes, evidence of interface with other agencies

  *  No known gov't interfaces, just simulated. Hams were very much
    on-site with gov't and non-gov't agencies

4.2.1.3.1.Â Analysis

In general, interface with other agencies is good, although in statewide
exercises, it is challenging to exercise together due to work schedules.

4.2.1.3.2.Â Recommendations

No action to be taken at this time.

4.2.2.Â Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity

Redundant and diverse interoperable communication systems are available
Evaluators were asked to look for:

  *  Are multiple modes and frequencies in use

  *  Is there evidence of temporary, portable or mobile operation

  *  Are appropriate equipment manuals accessible where needed

4.2.2.1.Â Observation 2.2.1 - Mode/Frequency Flexibility

Strength: Most programs exploited multiple frequencies and modes.
Individual evaluator comments:

  *  Multi-frequency observed by 3 stations

  *  Multi mode 3 stations

  *  Multiple modes and frequencies used, VHF and HF

  *  Strength: Two counties used multimodes and frequencies

4.2.2.1.1.Â Analysis

Stations were appropriately flexible in utilizing available frequencies.

4.2.2.1.2.Â Recommendations

No action required at this time.

4.2.2.2.Â Observation 2.2.2 - Portable/Temporary Operations

Mixed: Few programs operated from temporary locations although most
apparently had the capability. Individual evaluator comments:

  *  HT were in use on VHF

  *  Some stations had mobile/portable capability but did not use it

  *  No temporary or portable operation observed. Some mobile operators
    heard

4.2.2.2.1.Â Analysis

Many stations had the capability to operate portable but were not
requested at this time.

4.2.2.2.2.Â Recommendations

No action required.

4.2.2.3.Â Observation 2.2.3 - Onsite Documentation

Strength: Most locations had appropriate equipment manuals onsite.
Individual evaluator comments:

  *  All manuals at Alpena and DEC 7 never seen that before

  *  I know that equipment manuals are kept accessible at the Kalamazoo
    Red Cross chapter house

4.2.2.3.1.Â Analysis

Appropriate documentation was available.

4.2.2.3.2.Â Recommendations

No action required.


5.Â Conclusion
--------------

The Section showed considerable improvements over earlier exercises,
especially in the relationship between ARES and NTS. DECs and Net
Managers worked well together to resolve problems and plan approaches.
This does not mean there are no issues. Overall, ARES members could still
stand to improve their traffic handling skills, and NTS members could
learn to take more of a mentoring stance toward those who are not as
practiced. Formal planning was still weak. This was particularly
evidenced in the lack of rotation of net controls, but very likely other
roles had similar problems. Similarly, when repeaters failed or band
conditions changed, not everyone had a plan to let them know what to do.
In general, response to surprises could be improved through planning and
practice. To work on these issues, the Improvement Plan focuses on formal
plans and improving the knowledge of operators.


A.Â Improvement Plan
--------------------

This IP has been developed specifically for Michigan Section as a result
of 2011 Simulated Emergency Test conducted on October 1, 2011. These
recommendations draw on both the After Action Report and the After Action
Conference.

Capability

Observation Title

Recommend- ation

Corrective Action Description

Capability Element

Primary Responsible Agency

Agency POC

Start Date

Completion Date

1.1 Survivability and Recovery

1.1.1 Emergency Power

Remind Leaders

Periodic email

Planning

SEC

SEC

2012-01-15

2012-07-15

1.1.2 Experience

Targeted training and exercise programs at the local level

DECs guide ECs in the development of programs specific to the needs of
the individual jutrisdiction

DEC

DEC

2012-01-01

2012-12-31

1.1.4 Procedures

Continue to work on traffic training

Incorporate training into meetings once per year

EC

DEC

ongoing

Pass occasional traffic on ARES nets

EC

DEC

ongoing

Remind NTS ops that ARES ops don't get traffic practice

Email to net members before statewide exercises

Net Managers

ASTM

2012-04-01

2012-09-15

1.1.5 Rotation

Plan to rotate operators

Incorporate rotation plans into written operational procedures

EC

DEC

2012-01-01

2012-12-31

Net Managers

ASTM

2012-01-01

2012-06-30

1.1.6 Support

Plan for support personnel

Incorporate support personnel needs into written operational procedures

EC

DEC

2012-01-01

2012-12-31

TableÂ A.1.Â Improvement Plan Matrix (1 of 2)


Capability

Observation Title

Recommend- ation

Corrective Action Description

Capability Element

Primary Responsible Agency

Agency POC

Start Date

Completion Date

2.1 Cross- jurisdiction

2.1.2 Flexibility

Respond to loss of repeaters

Emergency coordinators to incorporate unexpected loss of repeaters into
local exercises

Standards

EC

DEC

2012-01-01

2012-06-30

Improve propagation knowledge

SEC to complete propagation video

SEC

SEC

2012-03-01

2012-06-30

ECs to incorporate video into programs

EC

DEC

2012-07-01

2012-12-31

Net Managers to train members on propagation

Net Managers

ASTM

2012-07-01

2012-12-31

TableÂ A.2.Â Improvement Plan Matrix (2 of 2)


B.Â Participant Feedback
------------------------


B.1.Â General Participant Feedback

A large number of comments were received from participants over various
circuits. The following is a sampling of those comments. Note that in
some cases, cut/paste preserved grammatical, spelling and typographic
errors, in other cases they were introduced in transcription.

  *  Utilizing the UP Traffic Net worked very well. There were a number
    of check-ins, messages were passed by the EC's that were involved
    this year through the UP Net

  *  Aileen WA8DHB, Net control of the UP Net did an excellent job,
    including having downstate stations sending some of our traffic to
    the SEOC. I don't know if she received any information about the SET
    besides our conversations on the phone.

  *  Deployed one Emergency Response Veichle, Manned the Chapter radio
    room using HF, Packet in Converse mode, CW, Red Cross Low Band FM and
    2mtr simplex. Had laison on E Team and the MVHF Traffic net. Took and
    sent NTS traffic, passed tactical traffic in converse mode Contacts
    made with Allegan Red Cross.

  *  Be careful of abbreviations in NTS messages

  *  some might not know what they mean Using State wide repeater system
    depended too much on infrastructure to link Counties together

  *  Some OP'S not familiar with NTS slowed the net down with fills and
    some inattentiveness

  *  SET info not found on State ARRL web site or on Yahoo Groups- Many
    didn't know the State was doing one

  *  Lack of a designated 60 mtr freq to fall back on/alternate freq's
    determined in advance by NM's So what if some hams don't have 60?

  *  NM's need to think out side the box- That is spread the net out on
    alternate freq's with NCS reporting back to the main

  *  NCS need increased circuits to pass traffic

  *  Some DEC's did nothing in their counties causing failure in these
    counties

  *  Suggest organizing the HF nets more like Skywarn nets are run - a
    main net and several sub nets This will allow disaster traffic to be
    moved more quickly

  *  RED CROSS: Radio room needs to be reorganized- More space for
    operating and sound deadening dividers and headphones Upgrade of
    laptops and printers more NTS training common pwr connectors Check
    deployment boxes more often- Even though packet went well more trng
    needed.

  *  What Went Well:On site equipment helped rapid deployment Packet in
    converse mode Had more then enough comm circuits to pass traffic
    Knowledgeable operators on Packet solved minor problems with TNC's
    MVHF Traffic Net operators very knowledgeable and performed very well
    HF Liaisons great- Basic concept of the exercise developed by the
    State on the right track- Could use as many exercises as the State
    can arrange!

  *  no man-made interference

  *  Representation from SEOC, Districts 1,5,6 and 7

  *  Excellent scores compared to SET of October 2009

  *  Net liaisons extremely competent in obtaining traffic from HF and
    returning with outgoing traffic

  *  Very good communications between VHF and SEOC

  *  Goodly number of stations on emergency power

  *  Extremely efficient assistance from E-Team in Kent county and also
    participation from Kent County Red Cross and one other Red Cross
    facility in a different District

  *  Messages from SEOC began coming through in a timely manner and there
    was no wasted air space like in previous years

  *  Brief periods of time were allotted at the top of each hour for
    stations not involved in the exercise so that they may transmit any
    priority or welfare traffic

  *  As a net control I need to learn to obtain my rogers and provide
    fills for the exercise participants in a more efficient manner

  *  My net liaisons need to learn to give traffic more slowly thus
    leading to a possibility of less fills being required

  *  It was apparent that several stations needed NTS training as excess
    time was used in getting their traffic passed

  *  Need more stations on emergency power

  *  I had difficulty communicating with three stations most likely due
    to their equipment as the links they were using were in good
    operating order

  *  One station left early after being asked to take traffic and i got
    the impression that because of their lack of skill they felt unable
    to continue but perhaps i could be in error. while on the air the
    station was very efficient and seemed to know the proper protocol

  *  The Liaison who was monitoring the SEOC phone Net picked up three
    messages and brought them to the MIDTN, messages # 2, 4, 9 and where
    picked up and acknowledged by all four Counties in the NET. A repeat
    was not needed as they where monitoring the NET.

  *  Mike in Presque Isle picked up a VHF message # 41 to the effect that
    all power State wide was lost and if you where without backup you
    were done until the exercise ended

  *  MIDTN as well as Roscommon, Alpena and Presque Isle all had
    Emergency Power Sources and switched over and rechecked into the NET
    to acknowledge same

  *  We operated from the Roscommon Fairgrounds as a field day type
    station and erected antennas and used equipment we brought to the
    scene. I worked elbow to elbow with the DEC (Red) and he spent a
    great deal of time after the exercise teaching me what I needed to do
    to function better as a Manager of the NET

  *  I checked into QMN because the statewide SSB nets were very weak
    into this location. Also, they were yakking away for minutes at a
    time, explaining why things were like they were

  *  Major concern on these nets were on frequencies other than their
    usual frequencies. Also, I believe some folks on the 3553 KHz freq
    for QMN were likewise concerned.

  *  Repeater contacts went well with all stations hearing everyone.
    Analog simplex contacts were generally acceptable, but we found that
    some electrical noise at the Coldwater PD/FD was not allowing them to
    hear weak signals. D-Star simplex contacts had the same result as
    analog simplex as a result of the high noise levels at CPD. Steuben
    has no D-Star capability at this time. The high noise levels have
    been resolved at CPD by utilizing adding grounding to the shield of
    our antenna run.

  *  Both the Hillsdale and Branch EOCs had extreme electronic noise and
    no packet connections were possible. We are using toroids and
    grounding devices to try to quiet things down but we are not there
    yet.

  *  We had 17 participants with 16 on emergency power.

  *  The contact with Kalamazoo on the 04 repeater was successful from
    the EOC. The Coldwater hospital had difficulty. Virtually everything
    on simplex and D-Star failed. We question band conditions because
    this has not been particularly problematic in the past. Will test
    again in November.

  *  Checking into the MACS Net went well. We received 4 pieces of
    traffic and we sent 1 response to the SEOC. Over all, my impression
    was that the HF link to limited stations who communicated with the
    SEOC worked very well. This moved the gridlock away from the SEOC. I
    did not have the chance to listen to anything but the MACS Net, so
    things may have gone to hell in a hand basket elsewhere. At least
    there were trained traffic handlers at the SEOC and at the helm of
    the HF Nets. This exercise illustrates that ARES and RACES groups
    need a ton of work on how to properly and accurately formulate and
    relay written messages to another operator. This is Deja vu all over
    again!!!!

  *  Our monthly Tornado Siren Test went off well, after the power cable
    of the signaling equipment at the 911 Center was plugged back in. It
    turns out that some things at 911 had been rearranged and they
    neglected to plug the unit back in. Good thing they test things!!!!

  *  Moving frequencies off usual freqs created considerable confusion.

  *  I was a W8DC, and was assigned to monitor 3932 KHz, but signals were
    so weak I could hardly hear anyone. So, I moved here to 3553 KHz for
    QMN, even though QMN was supposed to be for District 1 only (at least
    that was my impression.) Best laid plans of mice and men often go
    astray in emergency.

  *  Moving to 7 MHz was a fine idea, but I wasn't sure everyone heard
    the QNC to move, so I voluteered to run a parallel session on 3.5
    MHz. I found W8OAK, quite weak, but he was able to hear enough to
    move to 7068 KHz and, apparently moved his traffic.

  *  The SEOC had a good signal during the two hours I operated.
    Conditions were fair to good. No problems here.

  *  It's refreshing to know that we have sufficient depth of operators
    with CW skills so that a CW operator at the SEOC is available for the
    exercise.

  *  The segregated net concept, that is, a watch frequency for the SEOC
    and a separate net frequency for QMN was problematic. While this may
    have worked well for the voice nets, which tend to have a larger
    contingent of operators, it tended to divide the limited resources of
    QMN. Rather than resulting in greater efficiency, it resulted in a
    cumbersome flow of traffic and duplication of resources.

  *  Operations during the 8:00-AM to 8:20-AM EDT time frame on 3563 was
    hampered by strong digital interference. I did not have the
    capabilities to decode the traffic. However, it was quite strong at
    my location. It seems to me the risk of such frequency conflicts is
    greater when nets are moved off their normal frequencies or when
    special nets are established without thought given to frequency
    coordination and potential conflicts. For example, when the QMN
    frequencies were selected (both primary and alternate), considerable
    time and monitoring was invested to make sure the conflict with other
    nets throughout the day would be minimized. Of course, there are no
    guarantees, but it seems to me such interference could have been
    problematic in a real communications emergency.

  *  The procedures and message traffic originated and relayed was quite
    good. All operators involved did a fine job.

  *  Message 001: The x-ray at the conclusion of the text and before the
    second break (to signature) was unnecessary.

  *  In time of emergency, and therefore in drills and exercises, the
    message should have included a time of origination.

  *  Message 007: No time of origin. This is a potential problem in an
    Emergency Operations Center when multiple messages may be received
    about a single event. In order for an agency or individual to
    construct a coherent understanding of an event, it is necessary to
    know the sequence of the event components, inquiries, and actions
    that take place. Otherwise, errors in judgment occur. The time of
    origin should reflect the time at which the message was drafted by
    the signatory. As such, automatic time stamp at time of entry into a
    network is inaccurate and inappropriate (e.g. packet time stamp,
    e-mail time stamp, etc.).

  *  Message 007: Who is requesting the information? If I were to contact
    my local DPW or Road Commission and make this inquiry, someone is
    bound to ask "on whose authority are you making this request and who
    wants the information?" It is also likely to generate a reply; to
    whom is that reply addressed? When a message is originated on behalf
    of the SEOC, it should have an authorizing signature. Obviously, no
    harm no foul as this was a drill message, but in real life, it should
    include a name, title and agency in the signature line.

  *  I attempted to access the W8HVG link system, but the St. Joseph
    repeater was locked key-down all day. Not sure if this was an
    interference problem or malicious.

  *  Thank you to K8KIC for checking in on behalf of District One! A
    life-saver. We need more members in District One.


B.2.Â General Comments from Evaluators

Most evaluator comments are included in SectionÂ 4, âAnalysis of
Capabilitiesâ. However, evaluators were also given the opportunity to
provide general observations. Those observations are listed below.

  *  All major players need three HF rigs and 3 VHF

  *  One HF rig at DEC went down and was out of use two hours in a real
    emergency I would have brought in my HF mobile

  *  Alt NCS training heeded. DEC 7 pri op saw no need for alt NCS/Alt
    freq until instructed by DEC to open one

  *  I think master list of participant rigs would be useful. Until drill
    I never knew RLI and I use same rigs

  *  Interoperability priority needed

  *  Communications involving SET - with other nets that usually meet
    during this time period woule solve a lot of time and net problems -
    reference the Old Geisers net - Communications with them ahead of
    time about the SET so they could QSY the net ahead of time

  *  Traffic being repeated at too fast a pace verbally - repeated msg
    incorrect - District not getting the State traffic in a timely
    fashion - reliability and accuracy

  *  Operators need more practice copying messages - station on freq not
    prepared to copy - xray in message not being put into word count
    causing confusion

  *  Some stations monitoring both VHF and HF copying their traffic ahead
    of time to insure accuracy

  *  Confusion about abbreviations in text of message and not what to do
    about it. Ref Msg No. 46 - E Power

  *  I couldn't stand by idly; I ended up making transmissions to help
    patch and relay traffic. I ended up somewhat of a coordinator.

  *  I was on 3952. I spoke to NKX and K8YYZ

  *  60 meters needs to be tested. Thinking knee-jerk to run to 40 meters
    is not the only alternative to 75 meters.

  *  It became obvious that the 5th District has a big administrative
    communications problem. It wasn't for lack of trying to get the SET
    word out. The problem was that 2 of 4 counties, Allegan and Calhoun,
    kept their operations a secret. Allegan Co. Operated in a vacuum but
    had a busy county-only exercise. There ids a 5th district yahoo
    egroup the works well if people use it."

  *  As Kalamazoo County EC, NK8X read all of the traffic from the SEOC
    on the local VHF-FM net frequency. NK8X also assisted the NCS on 3952
    as a relay. 75 meters pooped out around 10:30AM."


C.Â Exercise Evaluation Guide
-----------------------------

Each evaluator was provided with an Exercise Evaluation Guide (EEG) to
guide the observations during the exercise.


C.1.Â Mission

Common Capabilities

C.1.1.Â Target Capability - Planning

C.1.1.1.Â Task

ComA2.4.3.1 - Develop Standard Operating Procedures and Standard
Operating Guides in support of Emergency Operations Plans

C.1.1.1.1.Â Preparedness Measure

Continuity of Operation (COOP) plans describe how personnel, equipment,
and other resources support sustained response/survivability and recovery
for all sectors

C.1.1.1.1.1.Â Things to look for

  *  Are stations using appropriate procedures and protocols

  *  Are net controls and operators being rotated

  *  Is there evidence of a plan to rotate operators

  *  Is there evidence of a plan to provide operators with personal needs
    (food, drink, rest, etc.)

  *  Is there evidence that emergency power/portable operations are
    planned

  *  Are plans in place to provide support personnel (runners, etc.)

C.1.1.1.1.2.Â Observations

  *  Observation 1: ......

  *  Observation 2: ......

  *  ......

C.1.1.1.2.Â Preparedness Measure

Emergency response plans address substantial loss of public safety
response capabilities during catastrophic events (to include special
needs populations and people with disabilities)

C.1.1.1.2.1.Â Things to look for

  *  Are stations using emergency power

  *  Are stations operating from field/temporary locations

  *  Are operations reliant on permanent infrastructure

C.1.1.1.2.2.Â Observations

  *  Observation 1: ......

  *  Observation 2: ......

  *  ......

C.1.2.Â Target Capability - Communications

C.1.2.1.Â Task

ComC1.2.2 - Develop common communication and data standards to facilitate
the exchange of information in support of response management

C.1.2.1.1.Â Preparedness Measure

Operable communications systems that are supported by redundancy and
diversity, that provide service across jurisdictions, and that meet
everyday internal agency requirements, are in place

C.1.2.1.1.1.Â Things to look for

  *  Is there consistency across the procedures used by the various
    jurisdictions

  *  Is there evidence of interface with government or non-government
    responders

  *  Is there evidence of any plan to use different modes and/or
    frequencies when conditions warrant

C.1.2.1.1.2.Â Observations

  *  Observation 1: ......

  *  Observation 2: ......

  *  ......

C.1.2.1.2.Â Preparedness Measure

Redundant and diverse interoperable communication systems are available

C.1.2.1.2.1.Â Things to look for

  *  Are multiple modes and frequencies in use

  *  Is there evidence of temporary, portable or mobile operation

  *  Are appropriate equipment manuals accessible where needed

C.1.2.1.2.2.Â Observations

  *  Observation 1: ......

  *  Observation 2: ......

  *  ......


D.Â Exercise Events Summary Table
---------------------------------

Time

Scenario Event, Simulated Player Inject, Player Action

Event/Action

0745

Scenario Event

National Weather Service DTX advises GLETN of pending severe winter
weather event including widespread icing.

0800

Player Action

SEOC station activates, notifies net liaisons of weather. Land line
telephone service already severely comprimised.

1030

Scenario Event

Conditions have deteriorated significantly. Power outages become
widespread, high profile antennas are damaged.

1045

Player Action

Local jurisdictions switch to emergency power, simplex where local
repeaters have damage and/or power loss.

TableÂ D.1.Â Exercise Events Summary


E.Â Master Scenario Event List
------------------------------

The injects for the exercise actually consisted of a series of radiograms
transmitted from the State EOC to the nets at various times during the
exercise. This appendix lists those messages.

[IMAGE] Message 1.

[IMAGE] Message 2.

[IMAGE] Message 3.

[IMAGE] Message 4.

[IMAGE] Message 5.

[IMAGE] Message 6.

[IMAGE] Message 7.

[IMAGE] Message 8.

[IMAGE] Message 9.

[IMAGE] Message 10.

[IMAGE] Message 11.

[IMAGE] Message 12.

[IMAGE] Message 13.

[IMAGE] Message 14.

[IMAGE] Message 15.

[IMAGE] Message 16.

[IMAGE] Message 17.

[IMAGE] Message 18.

[IMAGE] Message 19.

[IMAGE] Message 20.

[IMAGE] Message 21.

[IMAGE] Message 22.

[IMAGE] Message 23.

[IMAGE] Message 24.

[IMAGE] Message 25.

[IMAGE] Message 26.

[IMAGE] Message 27.

[IMAGE] Message 28.

[IMAGE] Message 29.

[IMAGE] Message 30.

[IMAGE] Message 31.

[IMAGE] Message 32.

[IMAGE] Message 33.

[IMAGE] Message 34.

[IMAGE] Message 35.

[IMAGE] Message 36.

[IMAGE] Message 37.

[IMAGE] Message 38.

[IMAGE] Message 39.

[IMAGE] Message 40.

[IMAGE] Message 41.

[IMAGE] Message 42.

[IMAGE] Message 43.

[IMAGE] Message 44.

[IMAGE] Message 45.

[IMAGE] Message 46.

[IMAGE] Message 47.

[IMAGE] Message 48.

[IMAGE] Message 49.

[IMAGE] Message 50.

[IMAGE] Message 51.

[IMAGE] Message 52.

[IMAGE] Message 53.

[IMAGE] Message 54.

[IMAGE] Message 55.

[IMAGE] Message 56.

[IMAGE] Message 57.

[IMAGE] Message 58.

TableÂ E.1.Â Inject Messages


F.Â NTS to District Assignments
-------------------------------

The following diagram illustrates the assignment of NTS nets to ARES
Districts: Traffic Flow Traffic Flow

FigureÂ F.1.Â Traffic Flow


Black lines indicate liaison with SEOC on 3.563 MHz, while violet lines
indicate contact on 3.932 MHz.


G.Â List of Contributors
------------------------

The following individuals contributed to this document:

  * NX8A, John F. Hutcheson - Training and Exercise Officer

  * K8AE, Anne E. Travis - Net Manager

  * AC8AR, Flora Jean Young - Net Manager

  * WD8AXB, Charles R. Pfister - Evaluator

  * KD8DQA, Blaine A. Jenks - Evaluator

  * WA8DHB, Aileen J. Gagnon - Net Manager

  * W8DR, Ronald D. Peterka - Evaluator

  * N8FVM, Edward H. Bassett - Net Manager

  * WB9JSR, John P. Wehmer - Net Manager

  * AC8JW, John M. Mathieson - Assistant District Emergency Coordinator

  * KG8NK, Louis A. Gembolis - District Emergency Coordinator

  * N8OSL, Joseph E. Tuscher - District Emergency Coordinator

  * WB8RCR, John J. McDonough - Section Emergency Coordinator

  * WA8RLI, Thomas M. Duggan - District Emergency Coordinator

  * WA8SCO, George E. Brand, III - Evaluator

  * AB8SY, Charles L. Rood - Evaluator

  * KB8VEE, Thomas J. van der Mel - District Emergency Coordinator

  * K8VFZ, Grant A. Watson - Net Manager

  * WF5X, Randy L. Love - District Emergency Coordinator

  * WB8WKQ, Jeffrey S. Miller - Net Manager

  * K8YZA, Joseph W. Pullen - District Emergency Coordinator

  * N8ZSA, Theodore N. Davis - District Emergency Coordinator


H.Â Acronyms
------------

Acronym

Meaning

ARES

Amateur Radio Emergency Services

ARPSC

Amateur Radio Public Service Corps; incorporates ARES, RACES, NTS and
SKYWARN

DTX

White Lake NWS office

EEG

Exercise Evaluation Guide

EOC

Emergency Operations Center

GLETN

Great Lakes Emergency and Traffic net

MSEL

Master Scenario Event List

NGO

Non Government Organization

NTS

National Traffic System

RACES

Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service

SEOC

State Emergency Operations Center

TableÂ H.1.Â Acronyms used in the document


I.Â Revision History
--------------------

Revision History

Revision 1.0

Thu Feb 2 2012

John McDonough

Various typos

Remove draft tag

- reviews by evaluators, Net Managers and DECs complete

Revision 0.5

Tue Jan 3 2012

John McDonough

Draft conclusions

Revision 0.4

Wed Dec 14 2011

John McDonough

Draft improvement plan

Revision 0.3

Tue Dec 13 2011

John McDonough

Draft analyses and recommendations

Revision 0.2

Sat Nov 26 2011

John McDonough

Add index entries

Add list of contributors

Revision 0.1

Tue Nov 15 2011

John McDonough

Initial draft

Revision 0.0

Thu Oct 27 2011

John McDonough

Initial template instantiation


Index
-----


A

Analysis of Capabilities, Analysis of Capabilities

ARES  

      Relationship with NTS, Executive Summary, Executive Overview,
      Exercise Purpose and Design, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and
      Activities

ARRL Simulated Emergency Test, Executive Summary, Executive Overview,
Exercise Purpose and Design


B

Boy Scouts, Observation 1.1.6 - Support


C

Capabilities

      Analysis of, Analysis of Capabilities

Capabilities-based planning, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and
Activities

Capability

      Loss of, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
      Scenario Summary, Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability

Catastrophic Events, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability

ComA2.4.3.1, Executive Summary, Capabilities, Exercise Objectives,
Capabilities, and Activities, Capability 1 - Procedures

ComC1.2.2, Executive Summary, Capabilities, Exercise Objectives,
Capabilities, and Activities, Capability 2 - Standards

Common Standards, Capability 2 - Standards

Communications Standards, Capability 2 - Standards

Confusion

      Caused by BT, Observation 1.1.4 - Procedures

Congestion at SEOC, Executive Summary

Consistency of procedures, Preparedness Measure 2.1 - Cross-jurisdiction

Continuity of Operations Plans, Capabilities, Exercise Objectives,
Capabilities, and Activities, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability
and Recovery, Observation 1.1.5 - Rotation

COOP, Capabilities, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery

Cross-jurisdiction communications, Preparedness Measure 2.1 -
Cross-jurisdiction


D

Disabilities, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability

Diversity, Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity

Documentation

      Availability of, Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity, Observation
      2.2.3 - Onsite Documentation


E

Emergency Power, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery, Preparedness
Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability, Observation 1.2.1 - Emergency Power

Equipment manuals, Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity, Observation
2.2.3 - Onsite Documentation

Experience

      Operators, Primary areas for improvement, Observation 1.1.2 -
      Experience


F

Field Locations, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability, Observation 1.2.3 -
Temporary Operation, Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity, Observation
2.2.2 - Portable/Temporary Operations

Frequency of operation, Preparedness Measure 2.1 - Cross-jurisdiction,
Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity


I

Infrastructure

      Permanent, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
      Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability, Observation 1.2.2 -
      Infrastructure

Infrastructure Failures, Executive Summary, Major Strengths, Exercise
Purpose and Design, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Scenario Summary

Interoperable communications, Preparedness Measure 2.1 -
Cross-jurisdiction


L

Locations

      Field/Temporary, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
      Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability, Observation 1.2.3 -
      Temporary Operation, Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity,
      Observation 2.2.2 - Portable/Temporary Operations

Loss of Capability, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Scenario Summary, Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability


M

Manuals

      Equipment, Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity, Observation 2.2.3
      - Onsite Documentation

Message Handling, Executive Summary

Modes of operation, Preparedness Measure 2.1 - Cross-jurisdiction,
Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity


N

Net   

      Procedures, Primary areas for improvement

Net Controls

      Alternate, Observation 1.1.5 - Rotation

      Rotation, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery,
      Observation 1.1.5 - Rotation

Net Procedures, Observation 1.1.4 - Procedures

NTS   

      Relationship with ARES, Executive Summary, Executive Overview,
      Exercise Purpose and Design, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and
      Activities


O

Operating Procedures, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Capability 1 - Procedures

Operators

      Experience, Primary areas for improvement, Observation 1.1.2 -
      Experience

      Personal Needs, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and
      Recovery, Observation 1.1.3 - Personal Needs

      Rotation, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery,
      Observation 1.1.5 - Rotation


P

Permanent Infrastructure, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and
Activities, Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability, Observation
1.2.2 - Infrastructure

Plans, Major Strengths

      Continuity of Operations, Capabilities, Exercise Objectives,
      Capabilities, and Activities, Preparedness Measure 1.1 -
      Survivability and Recovery

      Rotation, Primary areas for improvement, Preparedness Measure 1.1 -
      Survivability and Recovery

Portable Operation, Observation 2.2.2 - Portable/Temporary Operations

Power 

      Emergency, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
      Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery, Preparedness
      Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability, Observation 1.2.1 - Emergency
      Power

      Solar, Observation 1.1.1 - Emergency Power

Procedures

      Consistent, Preparedness Measure 2.1 - Cross-jurisdiction

      Net, Primary areas for improvement, Observation 1.1.4 - Procedures

      Operating, Capability 1 - Procedures

      Traffic, Executive Summary, Major Strengths

Propagation

      responding to, Observation 2.1.2 - Flexibility

Protocols, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery


R

Recovery, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities, Preparedness
Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery

Redundancy, Preparedness Measure 2.2 - Diversity

Refreshments, Observation 1.1.3 - Personal Needs

Response

      Sustained, Capabilities, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and
      Activities, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery

Rotation

      Net Controls, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery,
      Observation 1.1.5 - Rotation

      Operators, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery,
      Observation 1.1.5 - Rotation

      Plan, Primary areas for improvement, Preparedness Measure 1.1 -
      Survivability and Recovery, Observation 1.1.5 - Rotation


S

SEOC  

      Congestion at, Executive Summary

Served Agencies, Exercise Purpose and Design, Preparedness Measure 2.1 -
Cross-jurisdiction, Observation 2.1.3 - Served Agencies

Shutting down repeaters, Observation 2.1.2 - Flexibility

Simulated Emergency Test, Executive Summary, Executive Overview

Solar Power, Observation 1.1.1 - Emergency Power

Standard Operating Procedures, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and
Activities, Capability 1 - Procedures

Standards, Capability 2 - Standards

Support Personnel, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery,
Observation 1.1.6 - Support

Survivability, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery

Sustained Response, Capabilities, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and
Activities, Preparedness Measure 1.1 - Survivability and Recovery


T

Target Capabilities List, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and
Activities

Temporary Locations, Exercise Objectives, Capabilities, and Activities,
Preparedness Measure 1.2 - Loss of capability, Observation 1.2.3 -
Temporary Operation

Traffic

      Confusion, Observation 1.1.4 - Procedures

      Procedures, Executive Summary, Major Strengths


W

Winter Storm, Scenario Summary



For Official Use Only
=====================
