Product SiteDocumentation Site

ARPSC



Michigan District 3 Emergency Activations
=========================================


Standard operating procedures for District 3
--------------------------------------------


[IMAGE]


Joseph Tuscher

Michigan Section District 3jt14888@aol.com



Legal Notice
============

CopyrightÂ© 2012, the Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by the
Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay League under a Creative
Commons Attribution--Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An
explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/. The original authors of
this document designate the Michigan Section of the American Radio Relay
League as the "Attribution Party" for purposes of CC-BY-SA. In accordance
with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it,
you must provide the URL for the original version. The Michigan Section,
as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees
not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. The ARRL Diamond and logo, the ARES logo and the ARPSC
logo are registered trademarks of the American Radio Relay League in the
United States and other countries. All other trademarks are the property
of their respective owners.

Abstract

This document comprises the standard operating procedures for the third
district of Michigan Section Amateur Radio Public Service Corps.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Introduction

2. Michigan Counties Within District 3

3. Frequencies to Be Used

4. District 3 County Notification Procedures

5. Emergency or Drill Net Conduct

A. Revision History


1.Â Introduction
----------------

This document shall be a written set of regulations that will govern
Amateur Radio operating procedures within Michigan District 3 during
emergency activations. The following procedures for emergency
communications, drills and tests shall be adhered to. All Amateur Radio
operators shall be properly licensed under the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) Part 97 Rules and Regulations, and shall operate within
these rules.


2.Â Michigan Counties Within District 3
---------------------------------------

County

County

County

Alcona - 147.040 PL 123.0

Arenac - 147.940 PL 103.5

Bay - 147.360

Genesee - 147.260 PL 100.0

Gladwin - 147.180

Huron - 146.880

Iosco - 147.140

Lapeer - 146.620

Midland - 147.000 no PL

Ogemaw - 146.940

Oscoda - 147.140

Saginaw - 147.240

Sanilac - 146.860

Tuscola- 146.660

Â 

TableÂ 1.Â District Three Counties


Each of the counties within District 3 has an ARRL Emergency Coordinator
(EC).


3.Â Frequencies to Be Used
--------------------------

The following frequencies are to be used in order, listed below:

  1.  145.310 Bay City Repeater (-600) (PL=131.8)

  2.  146.940 (NORTH)

  3.  147.440 (SIMPLEX)

  4.  3.932 (CONTACT FREQ.)

The above frequencies are to be used for county-to-county communications
only. Each county within District 3 may use their own appointed
frequencies as directed by their EC. At the discretion of the District
EC, a Net Control Station (NCS) may be appointed to handle large volumes
of traffic that may be generated on the above frequencies, depending on
the size of the drill or event.


4.Â District 3 County Notification Procedures
---------------------------------------------

Each county within District 3 shall appoint a liaison to monitor the
District 3 Net requesting assistance for the drill or emergency
communications net. Each county within District 3 shall submit a list of
contact persons to the DEC.


5.Â Emergency or Drill Net Conduct
----------------------------------

Our conduct and manners on the radio are the standards by which many
people judge the attitude, quality, and the efficiency of each Amateur
Radio communications net. Stating Your Traffic: Stating the nature of
your traffic helps the Net Control Station (NCS) determine the priority
of incoming communications. (Emergency, Priority, Routine) Transmitting
Lengthy Messages: Communications outside of District 3 shall be in NTS
traffic format. All messages shall follow the NTS format, of 25 words or
less. The person sending the message shall read the message as written.
Do not change the wording of any message. Phonetic Alphabet: The Phonetic
Alphabet should be used for spelling out unusual names and/or station
call signs and locations. The names used after each letter has been found
to be the most understandable over the air. They should always be given
as:

AÂ -Â Alpha

BÂ -Â Bravo

CÂ -Â Charlie

DÂ -Â Delta

EÂ -Â Echo

FÂ -Â Foxtrot

GÂ -Â Golf

HÂ -Â Hotel

IÂ -Â India

JÂ -Â Juliet

KÂ -Â Kilo

LÂ -Â Lima

MÂ -Â Mike

NÂ -Â November

OÂ -Â Oscar

PÂ -Â Papa

QÂ -Â Quebec

RÂ -Â Romeo

SÂ -Â Sierra

TÂ -Â Tango

UÂ -Â Uniform

VÂ -Â Victor

WÂ -Â Whiskey

XÂ -Â X-ray

YÂ -Â Yankee

ZÂ -Â Zulu

Â 

Â 

Â 

Â 

TableÂ 2.Â Phonetic Alphabet


A.Â Revision History
--------------------

Revision History

Revision 0-1

Thu Feb 2 2012

Joseph Tuscher

Initial draft

Revision 0-0

Thu Feb 2 2012

John McDonough

Initial creation of book by publican
